foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Just leave it alone! [Exist Within] [Scenario Workbook] [Scenario Writing Techniques] [The theme should be nice and clear from the beginning.] ["No matter what happens, get up and write every day." - Ernest Hemingway] [Business Notice] [2020 Scenario Competition Results Announcement] [Incoming call: Apartment 301] Hello? Hi, it's apartment 301. Can you keep it down? It's really noisy. I'm so sorry. It's been like this for a while. Please be more cautious about it. Well, I'm also... My baby keeps waking up and crying because of the noise. - I also hear the noise from upstairs... - Just keep it down, please. Okay. [Notification of your unpaid phone bill] [A reminder to pay the unpaid cell phone bill] God, Buddha, or any other gods who are listening to this. Let me have the honor of being selected today, please. Please help me so that I can pay off all these overdue bills. Seriously... [Overdue payment reminder] First floor. The door is closing. [Nice Credit Information Company] [Recipient: Song Eun Soo, Buyoung Apt Building 507, #401, Seorin-dong, Deokyang-si, Gangwondo] Jung Ho Kyeong. [November Statement] [Recipient: Jung Ho Kyeong] You're eating so well! Oh, I'm sorry. [Notice of delay in posting the result of the Korean Film Scenario Contest in the second half of 2020] Hello, who am I speaking to? Hi, I was wondering when the competition results will come out. I just checked... We have just uploaded the result. Please check again. Okay, thank you very much. [Selection list] [Selection list] You're here. What are you looking at so seriously? You'll break your laptop if you stare that intensely. What made such a homebody come outside? It's because of the homebody guy upstairs. That guy upstairs is impressive. He managed to make you go outside. I would love to see his face. I'm going to put a note at their place saying, "Please keep it down." What? A note? This has been a month! Just call him on the intercom... Right, you said nobody picked up. What about asking the security? They said nobody's home. Well, screw it! How did your contest result go? It just announced postponing the result. They said they'll announce in a few days. Oh, really? I guess sometimes it happens. Then why don't we go for a drink for a change? It's on me. Let's drink another time. - You didn't get selected, don't you? - Hey! Why did she shout all of a sudden? What's wrong with her? It's clear that you didn't get it. I bet you are used to being failed by now...! I'm just joking. [Director/Scenario Writer, Song Eun Soo] [Award: The student above outperformed and achieved the result above in the school writing contest.] [Award: The student above won the prize at the National Literary Writing Contest as above.] [Certificate of Semi-Finalist of NNF] [Please keep it down.] Is anyone home? Is anybody home? Hello? I'm from downstairs. Dad. Yes? Did you hear anything when you went to the bathroom last night? Did I use the bathroom in the middle of the night? The story usually begins through some inevitable and dramatic opportunity or event. Eun Soo. Song Eun Soo. She must have been writing the whole night. Right? Everybody, learn from her. That's how you write. Let's take a 10-minute break. In the next class, the winner of the latest competition will join our class. So, don't leave the class. Eun Soo. Eun Soo, are you okay? Is it still? Every day at dawn, they wash something... And they are banging throughout the day, right? - Now they are digging something. - Digging? It sounds strange. I think you'll win the next competition with this story. What? Cheol Ho also wrote about his childhood neighborhood and won the competition. This year was the most competitive contest, apparently. - Hello. - Hello! - Hyung! - How have you been? Someone must be happy right now! Excuse me for a second. Eun Soo. If you don't write about that, I will. What was your address? It was Buyoung apartment... Your story idea is better than Cheol Ho's story. You got this, okay? There's only one thing I want to tell you. And that is, write a story about your surroundings. Mom, Dad, I'll pay you back double. No, triple. [Zombies] [Zombie Apocalypse Survival Guide] [How to solve apartment noise issues] Everyone is convinced of their story at first. Any kind of story is bound to start with hope. I don't know why, but I don't hear any noise on Sundays. Eun Soo, have some fruits. Coming! This is my last resort. I'm trying everything a writer can do without crossing the line. Fifth floor. The door is closing. What's with all the bills and letters from debt collectors in your drawer? Why are you looking through my drawers? Mom... You left it open so I could look at it. Honey, we'll be late. Are you not coming? We have to leave now. Resolve all that in time. Otherwise, I'll report you. I won't pay for you anymore. And keep your promise. What promise? You promised to try until this year, and you'll quit if it doesn't work out. Patience is bitter, but the fruit of it is sweet. No, it has to be sweet. [Zombie Writer] What is it? Come over to my place. I'll buy you pizza. It's okay. You don't need to. I'm studying right now. Come over, I said. I'll buy you a pizza. You just dreamed you were studying hard, right? I can tell that from your voice. Come over now. I'll wait for you in front of the building. This is the notice from the management about the noise between apartments. Recently, the number of noise complaints has been increasing. When the weather gets colder, people spend more time inside with the windows closed, which makes everyone more sensitive to the noise between apartments. Please remember that in the apartment living, your floor is the downstairs ceiling, so it is advised to be more considerate than a detached house living. Therefore, we ask everyone to be extra considerate to each other to reduce the apartment noise level. [Cheon-su-gyo] [T/N: Cheon means sky, Su means water, and Gyo means religion.] Oh, it's cold. [Zombie Writer: Come over soon.] [I'm on my way. Where are you? I'm in front of the elevator.] I got fooled again. Who's there? Come out now! What happened? She was in my car. I don't know her. I'm so sorry. Are you a resident of apartment building 507? What unit do you live in? I live in unit 4... 301. You live two floors below me. Are you sure? I'm sure. It was a small knife. And I'm not sure because it was dark, but I think there was some blood on it, too. Let's try to find out as much as we can on our own. Did you just say "we?" Also, why do you want to find out about that in the first place? We're friends. Help me out, please. So what exactly are you going to do? [On Patrol] [Head Manager: Kim Hong Yeol] [Jung Ho Kyeong] This cell phone bill is for a senior citizen plan. [No result found for Jung Ho Kyeong 9204.] [Apartment building 507, unit 501] [Reply to the inquiry about Gangwon-do Buyoung Apartment building 507, unit 501.] - Huh? - What is it? The person who is renting unit 501 is Lee Kwang Hwan. The surname is Lee. But the name on the cell phone bill was... Jung Ho Kyeong. The surname is Jung. That must be their son. Is your surname different from your father's? The one who's renting the apartment can be the mother. How many women do you think there are in Korea named Kwang Hwan? One of my mom's female friends' name is Kwang Pan. Park Kwang Pan, for real. [A thousand days of prayer, a paradise of Heavenly Water] Is anyone home? Let's go and see. Perhaps nobody is home. Hello, Soo Jin. I'm in front of your door. What are you doing? Isn't this Soo Jin's place...? Weirdos. Some religions believe in water. Maybe you got it wrong. Even if there was a knife, he might have had a reason for it. Maybe he dropped it by mistake. Then why nobody's answering the intercom or the door? Maybe it's because the leaseholder wasn't home, and the person who lives with them felt uncomfortable answering instead. Or maybe the person might have a job to focus like you. Then what about the noise? You've heard it. Are you saying that's a natural sound? Maybe the person upstairs is a patient. Someone who can't hear or has trouble moving around. Doesn't that make sense? How many unusual situations do you have to put together to explain this? Let me ask you this. Is it not weird to you? It's weird. But you want it to be that way, isn't it? Of course, you can think that way. If I were you and hearing noises for over a month, I would have had a million thoughts like you, too. And you happen to be someone who needed a subject to write. Let's follow him. What? Let's follow him. Do it yourself. You know I can't drive. I don't want to do it! It's weird. Listen to yourself. Didn't you say I should write a story that I only know? Yes! Write about it. This time, I'm going to get the material by going around in real life. There's not much time left that I promised my family. I'm going to write about this noise issue as a subject. I'll take care of your Korean study this time. Please spare some time and help me. Please, Ji Sung. Are you going out? Yes, I'm going to a cafe to write. Eat and go. Mom, time is gold. Gold. You're a little late for work today. You should go out early for yourself. Seriously, what are we doing? Did you sleep okay? I stayed up all night to watch car chase scenes over and over, but that's just a movie. I don't know. It depends on your driving skills. What? What's wrong? Be quiet. It's my mom. Hello, Eun Soo's mom. Mom, I'll come back with a good story. My dad will come out, too. Let's park somewhere else. It can't be like this. I'll go to the convenience store and get something to eat. Writer Song, it is the wisest idea I've heard from you in a while. Please do so. Hey, have this first while waiting. This is not a wise idea. What? What is it? The tenant from 501! Be careful. Don't be afraid. Just think our destination happens to be the same as 501's tenant. Just keep your distance. Then you should drive for yourself. I'm sorry, Driver Jang. This isn't going to be easy. It's obvious from here. He's trying to turn left. He's going to the Sinhyeon bound. I don't know much about the Sinhyeon or Sincheon area. He won't notice us, right? There are so many cars beside us. O-Of course. But if the 501 tenant is a murderer, he'll always feel like he's being chased. So, he might be mindful. That makes sense. Shall we go home, then? Oh, to his home? Follow him. That way. Wait! No, no! [Location tracking device] These are too expensive. Do you really have to do this? Yes. I heard there are a lot of apps like that for phones. Couples use it a lot. That's a good idea. I'll install the app and connect through your phone. And tape my phone under his car with the backup battery plugged in. [Location tracking App] Are you really doing this? Good morning, everyone. We have a few announcements about the parking stickers. Your daughter left this in my car. Wait, what do you mean by my daughter left this in your car? Oh, I guess you didn't know about it. Your daughter sneaked into my car before. - It led to a bit of a disgraceful incident. - What? Eun Soo! Eun Soo? I'm sorry. I'll make sure this doesn't happen again. This is so embarrassing. Thank you. Why did you lie in the first place? He could've thrown that away. But he came to your house to return it. He's giving you a warning. It means, "If you do it again, I won't let that slide." If he's warning me by returning something that could've been thrown away, it's because there is something going on, right? How are you going to go back home today? My dear Eun Soo, what are you going to do? Good night, I'm going to bed. I'm making it clear. This is really the last time. We can't do it again, even if we want to. My dad's coming back tomorrow. Or you can take public transportation. By yourself, of course. Okay, I won't bother you anymore. Where is he? He went through Dangsan and now toward Sincheon. That's strange. His direction is completely different from last time. Really? - Ji Sung, I think you need to turn the car around. - Why? It's the opposite direction. Opposite direction? Is it okay to turn here? He stopped. Let's follow him quickly! - Is this the right place? - Yes, turn right over here, please. Hello. Hello, it's great to see you. Nice to meet you. Great to meet you. [Cheon-su-gyo] Eun Soo, you shouldn't be suspicious of a devout believer. Let's just go home. What are we doing so early in the morning? Let's wait until he comes out and see where he goes. You are so stubborn. You should've written the scripts like this. What did you say? What? Nothing. Turn right at the next corner. His car has been stopped somewhere nearby. What? It's a hospital. We're here, but how do we find him? Hey. I'll tail him. Find the pay phone and call me. Okay. See with your own eyes. There you go! Are you satisfied now? Do you want some more food? - Ji Sung, I'm sorry, but go home first. - Why? It's just... Thanks for the help. Hey! What's going on with you? Just because someone has religion and a sick child doesn't mean that person is a good person. It doesn't mean they can't commit a crime. What you're doing right now is a crime. You said you were going to write about this stuff. Just write! You are not making a documentary. Don't go overboard. You are making me sick of you. Hey. Hey! [Patient: Jung * Yeon / Guardian: Jung * Kyeong] Father... Please give her a new life, Heavenly Father. Dad, I'm cold. What are you doing?! You can't do this! Come quick! Our Mighty Father... Bring some towels! Please let her transcend her body and give her a new life! Father, our Heavenly Father! Please give my daughter, Se Yeon... Se Yeon a new life. Please drive up there, sir. Okay. [Cheon-su-gyo Church, the second branch in Deokyang] [Floor Information] Please give us eternal life. Let us reborn into a new life. Who are you? Oh, well... How did you get in here? I'm sorry. I think I came to the wrong place. I'm so sorry. Have you eaten? Why weren't you picking up your phone? I won't be able to pick up my phone for a while, so don't call me. I'll take care of my own, Mom. Eun Soo, come here. What happened? It's embarrassing to live in this neighborhood because of you. You stay quiet. Why do you always defend her? Is being a writer that much of a big deal? This is a house we all live together. Go to your room. Tell me about it. Tell me why you sneaked into someone else's car! The subject matter of my new story is... You should quit writing right now. Get a job or take a test for a certificate! You better quit by the end of this month. Okay? Also, Honey, make her room back into a living room. [Mom: Don't skip meals. If you do, you'll never get it right. Also, I bought probiotics, so take them.] [Parking Sticker: Buyoung Apartment Unit 501] [2020 Cheon-su the Second Party 5th Anniversary Autumn Executive Retreat, September 30th, 2020] [Evangelist Kim Ha Neul: Leader, we haven't heard back from you in a while. And you weren't home when we came by. Please leave a message when you see this.] [Oh! I'm in a remote area. I don't really have signals, so I just saw this. I'll call you soon.] You live in 401. Yes. You told me you were living in 301. I must have said it wrong. By the way, why did you come here again? I was just curious. We are neighbors, after all. My mother has been grinding some garlic to use in medicine. I didn't know you were home during the day. I heard you are a writer. Yes. It won't be noisy from now on. It's a scary world, isn't it? It's a world where people kill each other because of apartment noise issues. [Fresh Grape Juice] Every character's lines and actions have a reason. Let's say the character committed a murder. What will be the reason? It can be anything from affairs, simple interest, to revenge. Someone should hold his head for him before it falls off. Oh my. Oh my, what should we do? That must be painful! That must be painful. Are you okay? Yes, I'm fine. [Apartment noise, religion, hospital visits, the day when there's no noise...] - I'm sorry. - It's okay. Let me give you an example. [Why?] There's a character who sits on a bench in the same park every day, waiting for someone. If we actually see that person, we would question, "Why is that person always there in the same spot?" [Apartment Auction list (Owner: Lee Kwang Hwan)] You're referring to Buyoung Apartment Building 507, unit 501, Deokyang City, right? That's right. I'm interested in unit 501 in Building 507. I want to move in immediately after signing the contract. But it seems like there's a renter. Yes, you need to make a settlement since they are renters who can counter it. If you want to move in right away, you'll need to pay them a full security deposit. If that's not possible, you have to wait until the end of their lease. If you leave me your number, I'll call them and get back to you. Would it be possible for me to get their contact information? It's the apartment I grew up in, and I really want to live there again. One second, please. Yes, I'll text you the number you're on. Thank you so much! [Lee Kwang Hwan's phone number] The person you are trying to reach their phone is turned off. After the beep, you'll be transferred to the voice mail. [What phone number do you want to check?] [Search: 01068431495] [Welcome to the Cheon-su-gyo Website] [Cheon-su-gyo] [About us] [A thousand days of prayer, a paradise of Heavenly Water] [Please put your ID and Password below.] [A thousand days of prayer, a paradise of Heavenly Water] [Mr. Evangelist, we came by to see you. Everyone's worried about you, so please call us as soon as possible at the number below.] Sister. You're back. I'm sorry about the last time. Are you ready now? [Zombie Writer] [What are you up to?] I can't be like this. [English] [Korean History] [Song Eun Soo's] [Jang Ji Sung, study hard! And let's get successful together! - Director Song] Who did you learn from to come here? It's Lee Kwang Hwan... I mean, Mr. Lee Kwang Hwan. What? Mr. Lee Kwang Hwan? What's your relationship with our Leader Lee? We live in the same neighborhood. Have you seen him lately? It's been a while. After hearing his words, I said I would come here. But I finally came here today, all by myself. Mr. Kwang Hwan hasn't been answering his phone, too. Right? His phone is off, isn't it? Did something happen to Mr. Lee Kwang Hwan? I haven't seen him lately and worried about him. About a month ago... He texted us saying he'll travel to the provinces to clear his head, and after that, we didn't hear anything from him. Excuse me, sir. The car over there with all the stickers, is that unit 501, Mr. Lee Kwang Hwan's car? Yes. He looked very polite. But why do you ask? Then who lives in that apartment now? Do you mean the fisherman? He's close with the owner. He's very nice. [Fresh Grape Juice] [Warning: This vehicle violated one of the following parking rules.] Travel? Anyway, you've come to the right place. The fact that you have learned from our leader and came here today were all guided by our Heavenly Father. We must pursue that reason. But I don't know much about this place. I've been taught, but I'm not good enough. Don't worry. I'll tell you everything. Let's go. [Welcome to the Heavenly Water's Paradise.] The origin of every life begins from the noble water. So, water is the source of all things. The fishes in the paintings you saw earlier are also spiritual beings for us. You get the idea, right? You can't go in any further from here. This is an auditorium where you wash away your sins and pray for your wishes. Let's pray out loud together. Please save us, our Heavenly Father! It is obvious, but when you join the church, baptism happens on a scheduled cycle. Take a look. The core of the Cheon-su-gyo is the baptism ceremony. Please listen to my prayer. Please, please. Please let me live one more month, Heavenly Father. Please make sure my son passes the test. It is obvious, but when you join the church, baptism happens on a scheduled cycle. The water in baptism means cleansing, purification, and vital force. And it makes our wishes come true. It's like that one circle we form. Please help us, Heavenly Father! And that circle extends to the meaning of eternal life. Please give me the immortal, eternal life! Please punish those who made my family like that. And please send me closer to my mother. Is anyone home? Heavenly Father, please give my daughter, Se Yeon, a new body. Please give her a new body. Where are you going? Let me go. Stop her. Something urgent came up. Excuse me for now. Sister. Let's go inside and talk. Don't come close to me. Otherwise, I'll call the police. Don't come any closer! [Future Civil Servant Jang Ji Sung] Ji Sung! Don't go any closer to her! Something is going on there. What? Something happened between Lee Kwang Hwan and the man upstairs. I'm not sure, but that noise... I think that might be the sound calling for help. The people in front of apartment 501 on that day... They were there to see Lee Kwang Hwan. The first time I heard a thump was in early November. Also, the time Lee Kwang Hwan disappeared was about a month ago. What do those two things have to do with each other? The strange thumping noise started around that time. So, I started to write outside. And then it gradually got quieter. And today, after Jung Ho Kyeong came to my place, there has been no sound. Wait a minute. I think the pieces are coming together. Let's report it to the police. Wait a minute. What if... What if it's not what you thought? Then you'll get caught by the false accusation, concealing mail, violating location information, and violation of privacy. Then what do we do? Let's find one more piece of evidence-A critical one. How? What else is there but to tail him? Is this story I'm imagining now really his reality? [Creation is making fish cakes out of the flesh around the eyes of a sea bream.] [Auto Repair Shop] What's that? What? Wait, wait! Sir? When did you get so good at driving? Will there be a day when I can get out of my room and drive? That day may come. But the car you drive is not going to be sound. It can be like a bumper car. That's not what I'm talking about. Are you disrespecting me because I have a license but don't drive? If you do have a driver's license but don't drive, then just remember this. Go straight and stop. Repeat after me. Go straight and stop. Go straight and stop. That's right. And don't even think about cutting the line. Just listen to the directions. My mom told me this. If you listen to your wife and the car navigation well, you will always succeed. The man from 501 is leaving Deokyang and getting into Janggok. Okay. Huh? He stopped. It's Guarim reservoir. Guarim reservoir? Yes, Guarim fishing hole, to be exact. Fishing in the winter? That's a little freaky. How's your writing going? It's going great. I wrote until dawn last night. It's been a while for me to write this easily, with all sorts of ideas coming at me. Wow, I guess the tailing worked. So what are you going to do from now on? You told me this before. My writing doesn't have a sweat smell. I'm going to get a job. That's the plan for now. I guess you were isolated at home for too long. No, I'm going to get a job and write at the same time. [Guarim Reservoir Road] Oh, it's the 501 guy. [Guarim Fishing Hole] How can I help you? I'm here to fish. Do you have a fishing rod? I didn't bring it. We also have a rental. I'll make it cheap for you. Come this way. He's letting the fish go. Did you see that just now? See what? The bait looked like a finger. Really? Hey, give me your cell phone. Hey, what are you doing? Put that down. I need to check inside of that wagon cart. How are you going to do that? We can't jump on him. Ji Sung, do you have any money? Money? Excuse me, sir. Hello. Please take this. What's this? It's our first time fishing, and you helped us a lot. The scenery here is beautiful as well. I didn't do anything. By the way, the guy with the black wagon seems to have a good skill. It seems like he caught a lot of fish. Do you know him? Of course, I know him. Does he come here often? He comes about four times a week when he comes often. He's really good at fishing. So I was going to kick him out, but he let go of all the fish he caught. Is that so? Then, do you happen to know what kind of bait he uses? Bait? Well, that depends on what you're fishing for. Tell me what fish you're trying to catch, then I'll tell you which bait you should use. No, that's not it. Can you find out what he's using for bait? You caught a lot of fish today, as usual. You're really good at fishing. What kind of bait do you use to catch all the fish at Guarim? I'm grateful that you let them go again. What are you trying to do? - Those people wanted to know what kind of bait you are using. - Why would he say that? The 501 guy is leaving. What are you going to do now? No, he's not leaving. He's heading toward the mountain. I'll follow him. Let's go together. Stop talking nonsense. He already knows your face. Go to that office. I'll call you if anything happens. Ji Sung, be careful. Don't be reckless. And here... The number to this fishing hole. Is he still not picking up? The person you are calling is not available at this time. What if he got into an accident? It's a small mountain. There's no place for an accident. It's not like there are predators. There's also no place to fall. No, it's not about that. He followed the guy with the black wagon earlier. The black wagon? Really? I think he left earlier. What? When? I've been watching here the whole time. When did he leave? There's a walking trail from the mountain that goes right down to the parking lot. He came down from there, got in the car, and left. Why haven't you told me about that?! Ji Sung! Ji Sung! Ji Sung! Ji Sung! Ji Sung! Ji Sung... No, no... Ji Sung! Ji Sung... Ji Sung! Ji Sung... Ji Sung! Ji Sung! If you do have a driver's license but don't drive, then just remember this. Go straight and stop. Ji Sung, please... I'm sure. It was a small knife, and I think there was some blood on it, too. [Zombie Writer] Ji Sung, is that you? Where are you? Where are you? What did you do to my friend? What did you do to him?! I know all about what you did. But I didn't report you to the police. So please don't kill him. Please... Please. What? You don't know a thing. Let's meet up and talk. Let's meet up first. I'm going to kill... kill you. Ji Sung, please hang in there. Ji Sung! Ji Sung! Ji Sung! Ji Sung... Ji Sung... Ji Sung, I'm sorry! Ji Sung, please forgive me... Ji Sung! Ji Sung! Ji Sung! Hang in there for a bit. Will he be okay? - Ji Sung... - Sir, can you hear me? You can't go in there. Please save him, please... Please save him... Ji Sung... Ji Sung... There's a murderer living in my apartment building. Excuse me? A murderer lives in Buyoung Apartment Building 507, unit 501, Deokyang City. Buyoung apartment? Is this related to the case we just received? What case? I can't tell you that. Who's on the phone right now? Hurry up and go to apartment 501 now, please. Hello? Hello? Who's on the line right now? That's driving me crazy! Mr. Lee Kwang Hwan? Are you home, Mr. Lee Kwang Hwan? A person is in there. Who are you? I'm the one who called the police. If you reported it, you should've answered the phone. Why haven't you picked up the phone? You need to go in there now. The person will be in there, and his car is parked down there. There's a person alive in this house. Who are you talking about? I live downstairs. My friend was beaten to death by him. And there's a person captured in this house. A murderer lives here. We have to get in there. - Excuse me! - Miss! - We have to go in there! - Please calm down. Miss, please. Calm down first. Please calm down first. What's going on? What happened? Did she lose her mind? - You're home. - Have you eaten? Right. Oh, Unni! My goodness! What should I do? This is all fake. Pardon? This is all fake, you idiot. The water is the root of everything? A thousand days of prayer? What? Pray for a thousand days, and everything will come true? What a bullshit! I'm tired of all this nonsense now. Leader, what are you talking about? Did you drink too much? If I wash their heads in front of everyone, people keep asking for something or asking to cure someone. It's a whole charade! Even though they are my customers, I feel like shit. Do you even know what kind of water you are drinking at the ceremony? It sucks... Everything sucks! No, it's not true. It's not true! What the heck do you mean by no, you idiot?! You're just like them. "Help my daughter to get better." "Please cure my daughter, please!" Do you think praying will make that work? Save her life? You are an idiot. What a dumb-ass. No, that's not true. It's not true! Okay, believe what you want to believe, you idiot! If you can't trust my words, go ask the other executives, you dumb-ass! You are a total lunatic! It's not true! Seriously... He was... the man I looked up to the most. He was a grateful man who led me to the Heavenly Father. But he deceived me- even the Heavenly Father. For the mighty Heavenly Father, these people became fish food. How dare you! I can help you. I have Heavenly Father with me. How dare you think you can help me? That's all a lie! Do you think pouring cold water will cure Se Yeon's illness? With that sugary water? You're the one who came to the hospital, right? Those who disobey the Heavenly Father must be eliminated! Can you... Can you tell your daughter that you killed other people to save her life? Do you want me to tell her? Heavenly Father, Heavenly Father. Please guide me to the right path. Let us find our way. Heavenly Father, Heavenly Father. Please help us find our way. Heavenly Father, Heavenly Father! Open the door! Are you in there, Mr. Jung Ho Kyeong? Open the door! Don't move! Mr. Jung, please calm down. Please calm down. Mr. Jung Ho Kyeong. Put that knife down now! Mr. Jung, please calm down and put that knife down slowly. Don't come any closer. Or I'll kill her. Eun Soo! What happened to my daughter?! How can something like this happen? Eun Soo! What happened?! Due to the so-called "Apartment 501 incident," Cheon-su-gyo became known to people, and the church got closed. Thankfully, Ji Sung and I woke up in a few days. I still sometimes dream that I'm trapped in the ice in apartment 501. In that dream, I get sleep paralysis and can't do anything. Maybe it was because of his fiery belief or maybe because the Mighty God salvaged the innocent child, Se Yeon, Jung Ho Kyeong's daughter, is now miraculously getting better after surgery. The story I imagined didn't go beyond the truth. But I'm going to write about it now- The story I know the best.