foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Are you blind? Want to get killed? The news is confirmed Har Har Byomkesh Take out whatever you have. Don’t utter a word. I don’t have time. Give it to me. Fast. Let me off or I’ll rip you apart! Truth can’t be stained. There is no fear. Purandar Pandey will be at the station. Goodmorning. – Please come sir, welcome! Quite a start brother! - Absolutely! Take our honoured guest to the prison. Keep an eye on him till I arrive. Yes sir, Come along! Let me introduce you to Satyabati, my wife. Welcome sister in law. And though he doesn’t need to be introduced, Acclaimed writer... - Yes, of course, Ajit Bandhopadhyay. Wecome brother! – Thank you. Shivprasad, take the luggage to the car. Your novels are also published in Banaras Yes, of late The one named “Byomkesh, the seeker of truth”... is selling a thousand copies But don’t call him a detective. Surely sir. Not detective, but the seeker of truth. Remember this is our honeymoon, The moon isn’t up yet, Satya. Benaras is twelve miles from Mughalsarai. What’s the state of affairs in your city? There’s no effect of riots here. I read in the papers that Gandhiji is on his way to Noakhali. That’s true but I’m not sure if that’s going to curb the violence. Rabindranath should have lived in these times. The city of Banaras is like the Vatican or the Mecca of all religions. Christianity prevails in the Vatican, and Islam at Mecca, but this city sees people from twenty seven religions coexisting. Brother, people here look for God within themselves. You get the best sweets here right? I’ll treat you to it all. Look that’s Mother Ganga. Let’s halt here for a couple of minutes. Here the river Ganga flows towards the Northern side You will be staying there dada. Come along, take care Boudi. (Sanskrit sloka worshipping Lord Shiva.) Isn’t it heavenly? - Absolutely! Boudi, on the other side lies the temple of Kashi Viswanath. I will take you there of course. There that side. Good morning. Good morning. You look delightful this morning. It’s because your health has improved. Should I prepare tea? The inner room is mine! It has a writing desk. It seems like someone lives here. This is my paternal brother, Brijhbanji’s bungalow. He is a professor at the Kashi University. He visits occasionally. He lives within the university campus. I told him my friend is visiting with his family. They’ll be staying for a few days, come on in Mrityunjay. This is Mrityunjay. – Greetings sir. He will take care of you all. Alright then Boudi, get settled now, but do eat lunch at my house in the afternoon. Please don’t bother. What are you saying Boudi, the whole of Banaras will be ashamed if I don’t take care of dada. And the shaming of Benaras would shame me too. I’ll take your leave now. Bye. I’ll send the car to pick you up. – Thank you. Look, have you seen this? Wonderful, let me take a look. He’s not interested. ‘Thief of paintings?' Doctor Palit outdid himself... but it’s all because of you. Had you not been there, I’d have never recovered. How can I reward you? What’s the hurry? I’m not running away. Please Shakuntala Can I say something? Of course. There’s something strange about Chandni’s behaviour. I heard something last night... and witnessed it too. This is perfect. I’ll visit the temple of Viswanath, buy the local sweets, and of course the Banarasi sarees and the sweet pan masala, do you know artefacts’ from Kashi are world famous. Let Ajit buy that for you. Why are you so immersed in a book by such a terrible person? Look how he’s perched upon the bed with those dirty train clothes. A person who initiated a world war cannot be ignored, Satya. Satya, Varanasi was named after two ancient rivers Varuna and Asi... Mythology says Brahmha’s strict tapasya.... Listen, I’ll-I’ll have to go out, I’ve run out of matches. (Verses from Geet Gobindam On lord Krishna and radha’s love affair.) How do I persuade my angry beloved, o Lord How do I go to his door? Evening and morn pass without his message After making me dream, he still stays away How do I go to his door? What have you done? This is almost a feast. All vegetarian Please begin Boudi, at night we’ll prepare ‘Bati Chokha’ What’s that? A dough stuffed with roasted gram flour, burnt brinjal, lentils, rice and a sweet ‘imerti’ What we call ‘amriti’ Yes, the same thing. We call it ‘imerti’ Dada, you say Banaras is peaceful. But life has become difficult for the police. I’m sure – After the world war, there has been a rapid increase in criminals. How? It’s appalling how drugs were smuggled here by the foreigners during the war. A thief was caught last month in front of ManMandir. They procured such a big bottle of poison. Do you know where it’s being smuggled from? South America. Curare Yes, it’s a deadly poison. What would you do with the poison now that... Where would we get a good Banarasi sari shop? All in due time. My men will take you around. Give them some curd Rukmani. The worst thing the British did was to sow the seeds of Divide and Rule. Yes, Ratikant, please come. What brings you here? An invitation sir. – Oh wow! You’re getting married! My luck has never been so good sir. Mr. Deepnarayan has recovered, is it? There is a party being thrown to celebrate his health. Please pardon me. I won’t be able to make it. – Why? My friends have come from Kolkata, and I’ve promised to treat them to ‘bati Chokha’. We can do that another time, isn’t it? – Certainly not. He will inform Mr. Deepnararyan. Please apologise on my behalf. Very Well. The police sure are under a lot of pressure Pandey. I can see that too. The police now are delivering the invitations of the rich! Not really. Ratikant and Deepnarayan’s wife are from the same village. Pratapgarh. - Oh! So that makes them relatives. Besides, Deepnarayan being very rich, might become a minister after Independence. Hence he’s flattering him. Who is Deepnarayan? He’s a well known zamindar of Benaras. His earnings would be 10lakhs of rupees yearly. What are you saying? - Yes. But he’s what you’d call a twisted person. When has a zamindar ever been a simpleton? You’re absolutely correct dada. He’s made a grave error at this age. ‘Frail old horse with a shining harness.’ Young wife of an old man Absolutely! His wife hails from his native land, Pratapgarh. Their marriage is an imposed one. He is fifty and she’s only twenty five. But she is as pretty as an angel Are they only two? Relatives? They have a nephew, utterly dumb. It’s been two years since Deepnarayan’s first wife died. There are no children to look after the property- Hence the clan must be prevented from extinction. Ah, don’t forget his age. His young wife’s name is Shakuntala Singh. Perfect image of the modern woman. Horse riding, hunting... she has grand hobbies. Noted aristocrats gather to talk at their palace, all being her admirers. There you are. How was your ride? It was good. – Good? Thank you. Goodmorning. – Good morning. Thank you. Shall I give you a cup of tea? –Yes. He had a bad liver. It made him suffer greatly. Now I hear he’s recovered. Tonight’s party must be in celebration of that. I’m sure ‘rudri’ has already begun since the morning. What’s ‘rudri’? We stop here. The lane next is ‘Kachori guli’, and the one next to it is where you’re staying We’ll take your leave then, Bye. We meet in the evening! They say it’s extremely fortunate to die in Banaras. Leads you straight to heaven. Bypassing rebirth. That’s what I’ve been thinking. – What? If I should make good use of the opportunity. Stop joking! Don’t create trouble here. Troubles need no spur. They resemble boils. They burst out without the slightest provocation. We forgot to tell Pandeyji that you can’t do without curd at night. Don’t worry. The ‘bati chokha’ will suffice. Where’s Mister writer? I’m thinking of ways to attain ‘Moksha’. That’ll be through marriage. Not sure if marriage brings bliss or blissful ruin. What did you say? Say it again. Tell me what’s ‘smaragaral’ before that. What about ‘smaragaral’? You’re reading the ‘Geet Gobindam' so religiously, now tell me the meaning. Well, ‘Smara’ means lust and ‘garal’ means poison. Your progress is commendable! Yes Dada, This is Pandeyji speaking. Oh tell me Pandeyji. Mister Deepnarayan has requested you to come for dinner. All invited. But why us? He heard I declined the invitation as I had guests. And my guests are the guests of Banaras too! I’m coming to pick you in fifteen minutes? - Very well. Let’s get going, to the Palace of the Kings Palace of the kings? Fifteen minutes is all we have! Does the police have special duty tonight? I have an invitation for sure. Really? Your work must be over at the headquarters then. Narmada Shankar. ‘A spoilt brat and a raging bull', you understand, Boudi, is a dangerous combination. Come Come The rains have come, dear friend, the rains have come The rains have come, dear friend, the rains have come Look how my stole is drenched The rains have come. The rains have come, dear friend, the rains have come The frog is drenched, the crickets too The drops fall on the flowers The frog is drenched, the crickets too The drops fall on the flowers While the drops from my eyes Drench my heart The rains have come, dear friend, the rains have come The lightning booms and crackles And the beloved falters The lightning booms and crackles And the beloved falters Now my nights never end The rains have come Yes, the rains have come. The rains have come, dear friend, the rains have come The rains, the rains, the rains have come Yes, the rains have come Dear friend, the rains have come. This way. Greetings Mister Deepnarayan Greetings. Congratulations. Must say you’re blessed with a long life. I had left all hopes of survival Pandeyji, it’s Doctor Palit who gifted this life back to me. Meet my doctor. Doctor Palit? – Palit, you are - Bengali, Pannalal Palit. What a coincidence! This is a very old friend of mine, Byomkesh Bakshi. Wish you good health sir. Very glad to meet you. This Mister is a writer, Ajit Bandopadhyay. – Greetings! And that is my dear sister in law. Satyabati. – Greetings to you. Greetings. Please make yourselves comfortable Mr. Bakshi, I’ll be back soon. What’s happening in Kolkata? Have the riots ceased? Not really, I mean the place I live in, Harrison Road, is quieter but riots are still on. It’s a shame. At what cost must we get our independence! Greetings, so glad to meet you sir. How have you been? Did he not have a bad liver? Look what he’s up to! Doctor Jagannath Prasad took care of him till his liver was damaged. Then Shakuntala Devi summoned me. Because of my injections, his health improved. Who can possibly question a king! You are late Doctor Prasad- On purpose sir, to evade the thousand praises of Doctor Palit. So much anger in spite of belonging to the young generation? Because I do, I don’t heed the archaic methods of old, especially if it's a Bengali doctor. This is... – Byomkesh Bakshi. A friend of Purandar Pandey’s. A Bengali. And this is Doctor Jaganath Prasad. Is your anger directed towards all Bengalis, or there’s a particular reason- I had almost got him cured, when Palit came and took over. My work, credited to him. Drink? Jogiya, get some alcohol for sir. Sorry. Debnarayan, my mate, you won’t inherit a thing, your uncle will usurp everything. Just like he got Shakuntala out of the blue, he’ll get you drowned in the vast blue Ganges too. Keep it low! You’ll get us killed! What is left? He gets him drunk in the company of these dancers, Heed what I say O king, it’s all planned by him. Let it be. Don’t delay, get all the land and property transferred to your name. Don’t get wasted. Teach him a lesson. Let’s do away with him. Who needs such an uncle anyway? Cheers! Gangadhar! I appologise my lord, I’ll look into this. Isn’t it breathtakingly beautiful? Look, this is a painting by Shakuntala Devi. It bears a lot of Ravi Verma’s influence though. I hope everything’s alright brother. Of course, it’s all very grand. Grandness of the rich landlords. Is it confirmed? No, not yet. That’s Doctor Manna, Shakuntala’s doctor. That lady is a doctor? Pandey ji, Ratikant can be seen nowhere. He must be still on duty. Mister! I’m seeing you after ages. Look, this is painted by Shakuntala Devi. What does this grand show mean to you? It’s all a play of power and lust. Chandni? Shakuntala? You look very beautiful. Thank you. That’s Shakuntala Singh. Deepnarayan Singh’s wife. And that is Chandni. The wife of Debnarayan. He is a friend of Pandeyji. He’s visiting from Kolkata. Byomkesh Bakshi. Wow. You are very beautiful. Thank you very much. Please come. Dinner is served. Did you notice the ring? Are you hinting at him being king Dushyant? Thank you. - My pleasure. Finally you arrive, what took you so long? There has been a theft sir. - Where? At the dispensary sir. Is Doctor Palit here? Theft? –Yes, everything is a mess now. There he is. Doctor Palit please go to your dispensary immediately. There has been a theft. My men are keeping guard, but you must make a list of things that have gone amiss. What nonsense is this? – Doctor Palit! Does Doctor Palit fend himself well? Well... He’s a good doctor but... Breaking news! The Bengali doctor just got robbed! This fatso is getting my blood boiled up. Calm down Ajit. Pathetic guy. Dacoit in the garb of a doctor. I apologise brother, but he and Palit just don’t get along. I can see that. Come on. The car is parked that side. Pandeyji, we’ll figure out the way, we want to walk back, right? Yes, excellent proposition. Sure? – Sure. Goodnight. Come on Satya, let’s leave. There’s something very dark about this city. Steeped in the myths of History. Thrilling to even think. Hey, look! Do you see what’s happening here? The oldest trades of the land. You and I can do nothing about it. Don’t look that way. - Let’s leave Hurry up! Go ahead, I’ll join in. Come on. Hello. Hmm. I’ll be there. Wake up, we’ve got to go. What has happened? Where are we rushing to? Hey! Come on. Singh’s Palace, fast! Will you tell me what happened? Deepnarayan Singh No more Like every other Sunday, I came to give his injection on time... Goodmorning. Greetings! Please take a seat. Your injection is due. – Oh yes. I hope you’ve eaten something. - Yes, you must eat breakfast first. Jogiya, tend to sir. No, I must first deliver my duties. Sir I’m the one indebted to you, you did what no one else could. I’ll compensate for the loss you had to incur at the dispensary. Just a few annas and six rupees have gone... apart from the glass. Nothing much. Your sleeves, One more thing, Doctor Jagannath Prasad’s behaviour is unacceptable, I sincerely apologise for that. If I’m alive today, it’s because of you. Honestly, Singhji, I’ve never lusted for money I’ve only been concerned about my patients. It doesn’t matter what Doctor Prasad says- Singhji, get up Singhji! Jogiya! Uncle! Jogiya! First I suspected it to be an anaphylactic shock, but now I fear it was poison. Could it be Curare? – What? Curare? – Hmm. Well, yes, could be, a post mortem... Traces could be found in the kidneys. – Yes. Don’t be surprised Ratikant. He is Byomkesh Bakshi. Byomkesh Bakshi? Yes, of course, I’ve read the mystery of the ‘Thief of ‘Thief of paintings’! –Yes! You’re sending the vial to the forensic department right? Only last evening I injected another patient from the same vial. He is very much alive! The vial remains in your bag. - Yes. And you keep your bag in the dispensary. Yes, one at home, and other at the dispe... You mean the vial has been changed? What do you think Doctor Palit? The door to your dispensary was shattered for a few coins? Who else knew that you come every Sunday to give him his injection? I’ve been giving him injections every Sunday for the last five months. The whole of Banaras knows. Yes, even I got to know about it last night. Which means under the garb of theft, the real intention was to change the vial with the hope of inserting a few drops of Curare in it. Is Shakuntala Devi alright? - She is a bit unwell. Doctor Manna is tending to her. I must visit her though I don’t know how to console her. Here is Doctor Manna, how is Shakuntala Devi? My doubts were rightly placed. It’s confirmed. I’m taking care of her. Doctor Manna just confirmed, Shakuntala Devi is pregnant. The body is being sent for post mortem. Alright. It was me who gave him the injection. If you want you can arrest me. Let us get the report. - Pardon me Let’s verify the post mortem report first. Oh, I’ll take your leave then. This way sir. Go. Let’s get some tea. –Yes, sure. Greetings! What are you doing here early in the morning Doctor? I was just passing by, thought I’d stop by and enquire about Deepnarayanji’s health. You must be well aware, or are you not? Then I’ve received absolutely accurate news. The Bengali doctor got him killed! I’ll see for myself. Doctor Prasad you’re not allowed inside. An enquiry is going on inside. So you too have joined hands with the band of Bengalis, huh? But while choosing a Doctor don’t ever rely on a Bengali, alright? Look how he flung him out of this world! I’ll see you later, poor Deepnarayan, may he rest in peace. I feel sorry for Doctor Palit. Well, you never know. So how does it stand? It’s a case of murder. Had it not been for the attack in the dispensary, it could pass off as an accident. But what could be the motive? Now that Deepnarayan is no more, the property belongs to Debnarayan. Did Debnarayan know that Deepnarayan was about to be a father? Perhaps not, but I’ve heard that Deepnarayan would keep Debnarayan intoxicated... all the time so he wouldn’t ask for his share of property. If one looks at this- Deepnarayan did not know that Shakuntala was pregnant. But Debnarayan... - Debnarayan was at the party, how would he ransack the dispensary? Not everything needs to be done by the self Mr. Ratikant. Are you keeping Doctor Pannalal Palit out of all this? Doctor Palit’s reaction changed entirely after getting the news of Shakuntala’s pregnancy. You must have noticed that. It was Shakuntala who got him to this house by getting Jagannath sacked. The doctor wouldn’t be dumb enough to kill... with his own injection and get caught as well. Who all would be present at those meetings? Narmada Shankar. He used to be Shakuntala’s senior in college. They would meet for tea, horse riding sessions and bridge games. Jagannath would come too. Wait, did Jagannath change the vial to get Palit in danger? PandeyJi, we need to visit the dispensary. I’m leaving Rukmani. What exactly is Curare? How does it work? It’s a deadly poison. The natives of South America would put it on the tip of arrows while hunting. A few drops of it in contact with skin can kill instantly. But it doesn't work if mixed in food or milk, must mix with the blood directly. - Oh. Which way is Doctor Palit’s dispensary? Here it is. Ok, let's go. Hello Doctor Palit. – Please take a seat. Name? I’m a poor man sir. Say what your name is poor man! Khublaal Sahu. District? Bhagalpur, sir. How much do you make every month? Thirty rupees, sir. I pay fifteen rupees to the landlord for rent. Can you make ends meet with the rest? Do you know Doctor Jagannath Prasad? Yes. Jagannath gave you ten rupees last night. Why? Sir, I have done nothing sir. - Please!- Get up! He coaxed me to stop working for doctor Palit I refused but he forced me the money. The theft took place at 7pm. Where were you then? Answer me! I was at the lane behind. I did not do anything sir. This theft has put your employer’s life at risk. Are you aware of that? You can leave. Doctor Palit, how many months pregnant is Shakuntala Devi? Three months. You seem to be surprised. Shouldn't I be? (Chanting from Bhagawad Gita) Greetings Sir. Greetings Pandeyji. Greetings Deewanji. You have taken the rear entrance! Sir wants to interrogate you. Of course. – Does this door remain closed at night? Gajadhar Singh? – Yes sir. Come here. Does this door remain closed at night? It is left open at times, sir. I guard it with my might. Not even a rat can trespass You may leave. Are you thinking of the theft sir? If one wants to get people inside, one can easily enter through the rear. Right? Do you think someone entered through the back door to inject him? Don’t worry, he’ll tell you. Just wait and watch. Writer, mark this incredible secret passage. Exactly! Here’s the post mortem report sir. – Yes, give it to me. Your guess was absolutely right sir. It’s confirmed. Cause of death, Curare. Pandeyji... I heard Deepnarayanji passed away? But how? We can’t disclose anything right now. Please come back later. I was away playing for the cricket tournament. So couldn’t make it earlier. I want to meet Shakuntala right now! Well I’m afraid that’s not possible, whoever he is. You know Pandeyji, I am a friend of hers, and Deepnarayanji was a family friend too. All that is okay, but no one is permitted to enter now. A prayer service is going on now, please come back later. That’s fine, that’s fine! This is Banaras, not Calcutta. It's becoming mercurial, Pandeyji. Increase the security. Tiwariji make arrangements. Yes sir. The manager needs to be summoned. I must have a chat with him. Tell us something about Doctor Palit. Sir, Doctor Palit had borrowed a sum of money from my lord. Twenty thousand rupees. –Why? He wanted to buy a car. Deepnarayanji had lent it to him... The doctor is a good man. Show me the receipt. I'm sure you have it. Come. Receipt? It was hurried up and I could not keep it. Do you doubt anyone? Doubt? Deepnarayanji was a good man. Who could be his enemy? Good man... I’m sure you’ve been here long enough to know... how Shakuntala and Deepnarayan met. After the death of her father he himself went to Pratapgarh to get her. I heard the same from the village folks too. Deepnarayan marries Shakuntala by force, brings her here, she sacks Jagannath Prasad and gets Doctor Palit, Palit gives him the injection. So, if traces of Curare is found in the forensic report Palit must be arrested. Isn’t everything falling in place too easily? Yes, indeed. There has to be a missing link. Uncle used to be a very good man. The almighty kept us all happy. After the demise of your uncle Debnarayan is the sole inheritor of all property. Property is not everything sir. I don’t care about it much. May I leave? Aunt hasn’t eaten a morsel of rice since Uncle left. What if something happens to her? I won’t be able to bear that. You may leave. Do you wish to meet Debnarayan? Yes, need to talk to everyone, but before that... Uncle has been poisoned, right? The poison has been injected. Doctor Palit would never do such a thing sir. You’re not from the police are you? - No. Detective? I’m a seeker of the truth. Are you sure you’ll find it... well, keep searching. But if something happens to Aunt, we’ll all perish. Why? You still have your husband. He’ll take care of everything. You really think he’s capable of that? Have you seen his condition? Get going. Hey! My name is Chandni. We’ll meet soon! Police! – What? Run! Run! One minute Pandeyji. Greetings DebnarayanJi! Are you okay? We need to speek to you. Uncle meant the world to me. I don’t know what will happen to me now. I don’t know... I just don’t know. You inherit all his property after his death. Do you know that? Chuck that You are immersed in gambling and alcohol all day. Where did you develop such a habit from? Your uncle Deepnarayan? I don’t know anything... But you did know, nothing could be yours till he was alive. Uncle, beloved Uncle! Dear Uncle of mine! Don’t pay much heed to Debnarayan's words, his uncle’s demise is his benefit. He has enough debt in the market, stays intoxicated all day... ruined guy. The property is all his. Palit works for him surely. Not just drinks and dopes, he visits notch girls too.. Notch girls... how did you- - I’ve seen him! Which way is Shakuntala Singh’s palace? That way sir. Come. This is Deepnarayan’s bedroom. Why are there two beds? He was unwell. A nurse was placed in his care. Miss Lambert. - Hmm, I should’ve guessed it. Come. Is this a painting by Mrs. Singh? - Perhaps. This is Avigyanam Shakuntalam. Yesterday’s Shakuntala painted by todays. Dushyant burns with desire while Shakuntala depicts pure innocence. There's something about this painting, Ajit. Seems romantic brother. No, sadistic! Is madam here? – Yes. Tell her we need to ask her a few questions. Okay, please wait. The police is here. Please sit. I apologise for bothering you at this time, but it’s important to ask you a couple of questions. May I? Yes. - Thank you. But before that, I must give you a small compliment. Your painting of Shakuntala and Dushyant is very beautiful. Has Deepnarayan left back a will? We never spoke much about property, But after our marriage he deposited 5 lakh rupees in my bank account. What happened to the money? – It’s still in the bank. Oh Okay. This won’t be necessary. By the way, where have you all put up? At Pandeyji’s brother’s- - Bridgebhanji’s bungalow. Then it's fine, otherwise we have a guest house too... if there’s any trouble... I’ve heard you’re doing the investigation, hence... That’s so kind of you ShakuntalaJi, but that bungalow is perfect for us. Okay. What were saying earlier? If you have children, they are entitled to half the property. Was Deepnarayanji aware of the good news? Yes, I told him last night, after the party. He must have been very happy. Yes, he was very happy. Frenzied with happiness... Madam! - Aunty! Aunty! What kind of men are you! She'll die out of the stress of your questions! Go! Please go and inform Doctor Manna immediately! Aunty! Somriya, come soon! Did you eat the sweet? - Where did I get the opportunity? Pandeyji, what about the telephone lines in this house? There is one in sir’s room. It’s his personal line. That’s connected to the operator, right? - Yes sir. Why? Nothing, I assumed something of that sort. Thank you. (Sanskrit lines from Geet Gobindam) Tell me, tell me the meaning. It means... a few words from your mouth revealing the light of your white teeth, shining like moonlit night, would erase the darkness in my heart- too complicated. (Sanskrit lines from Geet Gobindam) Sukumar Ray has reinterpreted these lines in a new manner, Exact same rhythm... Dear snake charmer, which way are you headed? Will you tell me the meaning or not? What trap is this? Explaining the meanings of Joydeb’s lines... why don’t you two discuss these lines? That will be more appropriate. – Not at all. You have to do the explaining. ‘Rati sukho sare’... is what you know already... And ‘gatam bhishare’ is secret love, What do you say Byomkesh? That’s what the red box says. You mean post box? That’s not a post box. It’s Radha’s messenger. Stop meddling with riddles... tell me what is it! I can tell you, but give me a cigarette first. There are two motives, till now. Money or property and infidelity. In Satyabati’s favourite lines from the Geetgovind, ‘Smaragaral’? Right, money and ‘Smaragaral’ alias... infidelity. The two motives may be inter-related too. Secret love affair! Where did the secret love affair come from? Shakuntala gives the good news to her husband at the night of the party, Deepnarayan is ecstatic on hearing that. Yet, the following morning he informs nothing to his trusted Doctor Palit. The grand news that should be announced to the world... remains confined between only two doctors! Had they not been doctors, I doubt if they’d still know about this. Shakuntala suddenly faints after telling me... she had informed her husband about the good news. Had this been such a simple story of togetherness in marriage, why was Dr. Palit shocked? He looks at everything in such a twisted way! No, wait! I didn’t get it, so you’re saying the pregnancy is... Not possible. Why? Deepnarayan Singh was bedridden for five months... and Shakuntala is three months pregnant. Does it make sense? This is why Dr. Palit was shocked out of his wits. Couldn’t say much out of decency. So now we’re left with the infidelity That’s also impossible without letters. What about telephone? The only telephone in the palace is in Deepnarayan’s room. Operator is personal. So Dushyant visits Shakuntala. Narmada or could it be Jagannath? Debnarayan or could it be Palit? Palit is not Dushyant for sure. He has been hired to do the work. And a vagabond like Debnarayan would never be able to woo Shakuntala Singh. If she does something it’ll only be for the money. Why was Deepnarayan killed? Shakuntala did not give the ‘good news’ to her husband. She wouldn’t have been alive had she done so. Getting rid of Deepnarayan would mean getting rid of... any proof that the child is not her husband's. What do you really feel? A lot of things are in my mind Ajit... but Shakuntala’s painting on the wall is clouding my mind. There’s something very strange about the painting. Satya..... Oh timeless truth... Stay not silent. Speak out. Speak out. Hello I’m Shakuntala Singh speaking. May I speak to Mister Bakshi? Speaking. You’ve spoken to everyone, what have you conferred Mister Bakshi? Do you doubt anyone? Yes. Who? Debnarayan and Chandni. They must be involved in his falling ill, and finally dying. Debnarayan drinks more than him, his liver is absolutely fine! Rumour has it that your husband would keep him intoxicated all days. Two districts of and around Banaras belongs to us Mister Bakshi. Debnarayan wouldn’t be able to manage that. And my husband alone was capable of handling matters relating to property. Perhaps these alone were his motives. They are... Mister Bakshi. Occasionally late at nights, I’ve seen Chandni smuggling in a person from the rear entrance. Did you recognise the person? Debnarayan and Chandni are in this together. Got the dispensary ransacked, and changed the vial. I’d be ever grateful, if you could gather proof of their actions. Don’t worry about money, I- three thousand rupees. I only seek the truth. Thank you. I’ve told you what the truth is Mister Bakshi. All you need to do is to gather the proofs. That’s all. Good day. That we’ll get to know in the evening... how well went the day. Sir, here is the forensic report of the vial. So, there are no traces of Curare in the vial. Then how was Curare found in the body? It’s possible that Doctor Palit changed the vial himself. He had that time. That means doctor Palit staged the whole attack of the dispensary? Very well! Motive? That he alone can tell. Could you please check his whereabouts? Hello, please connect me to 341607. Hello. Is Doctor Palit there? Thanks. He left the dispensary half an hour ago. He’s leaving Banaras. Get the car Pandeyji! Let’s go. Stop there! You’ll have to delay your trip Doctor Palit. We have important business with you. What’s going on here? There was no Curare in the vial Doctor Palit. So Deepnarayan did not die because of the injection? That he did. Curare is not a drug to be mixed in food. It doesn’t work unless it mixes with blood directly. You’re well aware of that. The vial has been changed. But I gave you the vial I used for the injection. Very well then, tell me what you did with the money for the car loan? Car loan? Yes, Deepnarayan Singh had lent you 20,000 rupees to buy a car. Oh! He hadn’t given it, he said he would. He said he’d give it to me as reward. But why are you asking me these questions? Manager Gangadhar confirmed that you had taken the money from him. He has lied. Byomkesh sir that is a twisted family! You want to know why I was shocked to know Shakuntala is pregnant. Do you know why? Five months! Deepnarayan was bedridden and incapable for five months! How is it possible? That is what you are saying. I am saying? Miss Lambert who was Deepnarayan’s nurse till he recovered, will vouch for the same! Mister Byomkesh, I gave him the injection which cost him his life. That is my only mistake. I have no idea if there was poison in the vial. Please, a patient is at his deathbed. I must leave! Please! Okay, you may leave, but don’t try to move out of Banaras till this is resolved. Thank you. What are we to do brother? It’s difficult to get a hold of him. Sir, should I go to Chunar Jail? If I can talk to the guy who smuggled Curare, we could know who purchased it from him. But when will you return? I’ll return in a day or two. Yes sir. You must remember Ratikant, that Doctor Palit is now our main target. Right sir. Death by injection, yet no traces of Curare in the vial. Shakuntala is pregnant but Deepnarayan has been bedridden for 5 months. Palit hasn’t taken money but, Gangadhar insists he has paid him without a receipt. Pandeyji, Miss Lambert! Yes, let’s go! - Right now? Yes, didn’t you notice how quickly Doctor Palit left. He might prepare her to lie. Lets leave. Quick! Impossible! I was nursing him for about 5 months. I never left him alone. Not for a single night. Was it possible for Deepnarayan Singh to lead a conjugal life? No sir. The four or five months that he was critically ill, it is not possible. He was absolutely bedridden. Affairs are at its best when they’re illicit. Look at the vast instances in literature, Bengali, Sanskrit, English. Right, tell me what kinds of affairs are mentioned in literature. Affairs of the full moon night, affairs of the moonless night, But affairs of the window are most predominant now. Quite interesting. – Yes! The other day you said something about Radha’s messenger. I could foresee Radha sitting by the letter box, swinging her legs. What happened? Byomkesh? Byomkesh? What just happened? What did I say? Who knows what goes on in his mind. What is it? Why’re we here? Let’s go home. C’mon! Satyabati is alone, it’s very late. It’s improper to roam around at this hour? Ajit! Slowly! Why can’t you talk tomorrow? I need to meet Shakuntala. What are you doing? Shakuntala! Let's go from here. Come here quick! Stop! Stop! Who’s there? Get him, quick! Stop! Stop! The play is at its peak Byomkesh! Exactly what I thought. Have you noticed... the lights are off. The air is heavy. I will go back home. All this can’t happen here. On a vacation if you do this, I’ll call my brother to take me home, No matter how bad the riots are in Kolkata. The two went out to have betel leaves, and see how long it’s been! We’re also working here... What work have you on vacation? And brother in law is supposed to be writing. Exactly! Your brother in law is writing utter nonsense. He has no plot to develop, I must help Oh, is that so? Do what you want to, I’ll go home. Why are you so pissed Satya? I told you, I’ll buy you a Banarasi, and sweets.... Satya? Why don’t you remind me Ajit? We must buy these tomorrow! Radha’s pride is deadly! Aren’t we getting dinner tonight? Let’s eat. Come on. (Verses from Geet Gobindam on Lord Krishna and Radha’s love affair.) Narmada Shankar! We need to interrogate you about the trespass last night. Tresspass? Do you have any proof Mr. Pandey? Police has identified you easily Narmada Shankar. Really? What if I tell you I was invited by Shakuntala herself! Will I still be accused of trespassing? Jagannath they’re calling me a trespasser! Narmada Shankar is a trespasser! Do you know what relation I have with Shakuntala? Do you? Wait... Shut up! Narmada Shankar must be stopped by the police! I will be forbidden from meeting Shakuntala by the Police! I love her. She’s mine. She’s only mine, mine alone. Do you understand? – Let’s go elsewhere. One minute! Take him away! Hooligan! Let’s go. No one can take me away from Shakuntala! Listen, the day Deepnarayan passed away the police didn’t let him in. He’s been enraged since then. He got drunk last night and insisted that he enter the palace. And you played to his tunes! - What? You understand Bengali very well Jagannath babu. Give me the truth. What could I have done? He had to meet Shakuntala! How long does Narmada know Shakuntala? Why are you asking me all this? I don’t know these things So you won’t answer? I’m a respectable man Pandeyji, I don’t interfere in other’s lives. Unless of course they are Bengalis. The very reason why you tried to bribe khubblal with the money. What nonsense are you saying? - Shut up! Respectable doctor! You’re a curse of the educated class. Answer my questions without beating around the bush! Narmada was Shakuntala’s lover. He was her senior at the Allahabad University... I’m just telling you what he told me. Throw some light, o Lord Mahadev! Such penance I can bear no more! The sticky feeling on my fingers, the other day, was the envelope sealing gum... from Shakuntala’s writing desk. Letter? - Yes, and the red letter box. Impossible to communicate through telephone, so the affair progressed through exchange of letters. And the lover too, would enter through the back door, and though the secret passageway, reach her room. Narmada? Or could it be anyone else who would regularly come to those meetings? The more I think of this, that painting comes to my mind. What’s there in that painting? The same Shakuntala and the same old Dushyant. Come on. Come on now. Praise to the Lord Shiva! Greetings Mr. Manager! Greetings. Do you collect letters from here every day? Yes, from layers, judges, electricity bills, etc. Around 25 each day When’s the clearance? 7 in the morning and 4 in the evening. Is this also related to the death? Whom did you give twenty thousand rupees to, that you considered it unecessary to keep any receipt? You haven’t paid such a huge amount to Doctor Palit, if this information reaches Pandeyji’s ears... an enquiry will be set up. Isn’t it Ajit? So much money belonging to the estate. - And he is a strict officer. Fine sir, if Palit refuses, I’ll pay the money myself. I’m anyway used to bearing losses. You gave the money to your son Leeladhar right? What could I have done sir? That good for nothing son of mine, Leeladhar, is an alcoholic, gambler. He was so deep in debt that we were ashamed to show our faces to anyone. I’ll repay the money, sir, I’ll repay the money. Please forgive me sir. But Leela and I are not involved in any of this mess. Why don’t you let me meet my aunt? What are you thinking? That I’ll poison her? Not only you, no one is allowed to meet her except Miss Manna. Our work will be done in two or three days, then you can meet her anytime. Your aunty of course! - Why? Who can take care of her better than me? She’s very ill. Perhaps you don’t know, she’s not ill, she’s pregnant. Pregnant!!! Saw her face? The news is as devastating as bombs. No one’s believing this, our equations are matching Ajit. What now? It’s time to embark on the search for sarees. Like it? It’s good. Just good? What more? Rest your Shakuntala Singh will provide you. What would happen to my Parvati then? Your Parvati has got used to it all. Satya, you are as deserving as I’m when it comes to seeking the truth. Who else could have shown me the path to such untainted truth? Byomkesh? Fascinating! I wish to talk to Shakuntala Singh, alone. Did you figure something? You have seen the painting too, Ajit recounted the Geet Gobindam, And we lit the lamps every night... Earlier I’d seen the painting in the darkness of the night Ajit. Today I got to see it in broad day light. What? - I am stumped... How is she doing now? She’s better. She ate last night. I need to talk to her, alone. One minute. You may. - Thank you. Let’s talk business After your father died, Deepnayan Singh forcibly marries you The next one year goes by happily, bearing you a child. The motive of the child is a very important factor in the death of Mr. Deepnarayan. For the last five months he was bedridden. And you are three months pregnant. And in these five months, Miss Lambert hasn’t left sight of Deepnarayan. Then? Take as many as you want. Who’s your Dushyant Mrs. Singh? What news? Two slaps from me at the Chunar jail, and the prisoner accepted everything. It was Doctor Palit who bought the Curare from him 100 mls. The whole drama at the dispensary was to distract us. Then Doctor Palit must be arrested soon. Narmada could be Shakuntala’s lover, and he bribed Palit to do this. We also saw that Palit doesn’t earn much from the dispensary. Please have a seat. It must remembered that Shakuntala herself had introduced Palit to that house. Did Shakuntala accept everything? Yes, she accepted that she has a secret lover. And he is the father of her child. His name? She didn’t divulge. But she accepted how they would secretly meet. Murder at the hands of Palit, but a different lover? Shakuntala hails from my village. She could tell me, should I ask? She’ll divulge everything herself tonight. Will she? Yes, but not orally. Tonight at 10.30 she will drop a letter at the post box... disclosing the name of her lover. It will be addressed to Pandeyji. The letters are cleared by 7 am every morning. Pandeyji I hope by 10.30 am, you’ll get the letter bearing her lover's name. But why only after10.30pm? Miss Manna leaves that house at ten. Only after that Shakuntala... to maintain secrecy. Meanwhile formulate the prisoner’s account in such a way that Palit doesn’t get off easily. Very well, come on Ratikant. You will remember everything I hope. Yes sir. Palit doesn’t look like he could kill... Go in and switch on the fan. - Eh? At one go. This is why I say, the truth can never be concealed. It hovers around the eye always, like a switch board! Are you doping or something? Everyone will be doped out of their senses tonight! What? The shroud of lies will clear to celebrate truth. You can’t be upset, tonight we’ll be late. Of course you will be... it’s going to be a no moon night, and I’d asked you not to be out. It’s a no moon night right? How splendid! You’ve nailed it Satya! I don’t understand your riddles. Is there any time better to reunite with your beloved than a no moon night? I’m sure that won’t be on all night long! Not a chance. We’ll be back by 12.30-1am. Right Ajit? Yes. Stay up. I’ll come to you with the story of Dushyant and Shakuntala. Whats’ happ... - One minute! Geet Gobindam... switch board... Shakuntala’s painting... you should get the rest. While I take a quick shower. Diamond Harbour... Ranaghat... Tibet! What time is it? - 9.45. Byomkesh, why are we going to witness the letter being dropped? We’d come to know in the morning anyway. Listen, Geet Gobindam... switch boar- Spare me of your riddles! I’ll watch for now. Will write about it later. Pandeyji, let’s go! It’s 10.15. Should I place Tiwari that side? All instructions are given right? - Yes, everything! Go! - Yes sir. Pandeyji, we don’t have much time. You wait here, I’ll keep a watch there. Ajit, hide there. And listen, on hearing the sound of the flute, You must run like the forlorn Radha. PandeyJi, that way! How could you fail to trust the person you loved so deeply? Will you survive after killing me Mr. Dushyant? Thank you Pandeyji. Read the letter later, see the face first. Goodness! Yes (written) Shakuntala’s painting reinforced my doubts. You know that. Licit or illicit, any person has a deep desire to tell the world who the lover is, through music, letters, paintings. Shakuntala also tried to express who her Dushyant was. I couldn’t comprehend much on... seeing the painting in the darkness of the night One wouldn’t understand unless he spotted the tiny clue Shakuntala left. It kept striking me each time. Geet Gobindam and Satyabati saved me. Suddenly that night Satya reminded me It’s on the left side. Goodness, she’s angry! The first time I entered Shakuntala’s room at night, He instinctively knew where the switch board was, switching on the light. Unless, you are a regular visitor, you wouldn’t know the position of the switchboard. (Verses from Geet Gobindam on Lord Krishna and Radha’s love affair.) All equations were perfectly balanced. ‘Rati sukh sare...’ ‘Rati’, Ratikant. This doubt made me view the painting in day light. I noticed Shakuntala’s Dushyant is blue-eyed. Remember, Pandeyji had mentioned... they both hailed from the same district in Allahabad? Perhaps, they were in love since then. Yet, their secretly the affair continued... The next natural step would be having a child. When she knew about her pregnancy, she called for Ratikant. The news is confirmed. They must have been in love in Pratapgarh itself, But before they could be together, Deepnarayan forcibly marries Shakuntala. Ratikant gets himself enlisted in the Police service and lands in Banaras. Their affair continues. Doom would befall if Deepnarayan came to know. With Shakuntala’s life at risk, So... Deepnarayan had to be removed. Ratikant devices a plan Of getting Curare from Chunar Jail... and mixing it in the vial. After the murder when I raise the question of poison, Ratikant works it out in his head. He changes the vial immediately, wishing to prove the work was yours. But, couldn’t save himself in the end. Why was ‘yes’ written in the letter? Sorry Pandeyji, that was a part of my plan. I had told Shakuntala Singh I knew who her Dushyant was. I didn’t ask her to write his name. You wouldn’t mind much if two lakh was taken from the five in your account. If you agree, write a ‘yes’ and post it to Pandeyji’s address. I told you that the letter would bear the name of the lover. Ratikant knew his name would be revealed. So he disposed her off. Only one person knew everything. But she was Shakuntala’s confidante. She never uttered a word to anyone. Come, Ajit? Where’s peace without the Lord, o mind Where’s peace without the Lord? Where’s peace without the Lord, o mind Where’s peace without the Lord? The eyes of the mind cry on While the eyes of the body stay dry. Where’s peace without the Lord, o mind Where’s peace without the Lord? Hanuman crossed the ocean Hanuman crossed the ocean With the name of the Lord With His name, pain subsides And hardships cast asunder. Where’s peace without the Lord, o mind Where’s peace without the Lord? I’ve already thought of the story brother. ‘Fire fly.’ Shakuntala’s fire... and Ratikant, the fly? Both fiery flies of doom. This was predestined. The story begins in the ghats of Banaras then reaches the palace of Deepnarayan- A ferry ride for now please. This time is reserved for my beloved. Come on. What about brother in law? Writers should never be pampered. Enmeshing darkness has ceased. A new moon will rise tonight.