Transcript for Aadavaallu Meeku Johaarlu (2022) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- If you ask any man to write an essay on women, he would think for some time and would soon give up. Because God hasn't equipped men with the potential to completely understand a woman. That's why, more often than not, we hail women. Every man usually has 3 to 4 women in his life. But if a man has 15 women in his life, just imagine his plight. The boy you see running over there is the younger version of the man I had mentioned. His name is Chiranjeevi. She is Chiru's youngest aunt, Shanti. She is over-protective regarding him; she will thrash anyone like Virendra Sehwag used to thrash the cricket ball. Third aunt, Gauri. She is like Ganguly; can't control her excitement. Anything related to Chiru's happiness excites her multi-folds. Second aunty, Sharadha. She believes in slow and steady wins the race; just like our Rahul Dravid. She is very cautious before taking any decision related to Chiru. She is Padmamma... a very important person in the family. She is like Sachin Tendulkar, everyone loves her and she is mighty experienced but succumbs to pressure under crucial situations. She is like Mahendra Singh Dhoni; Chiru's mother, Adi Lakshmi. She is a sort of captain who keeps this family together in all the ups and downs. Technically she is nine months senior as she gave birth to Chiru but in practicality all five of them are equal in Chiru's life. The girls over here are all Chiru's sisters. Chiru being the only boy among all these girls, they adore him, love him and they are crazy for him. The two men who are added into the frame and... the three men who were already present in the frame are Chiru's father and uncles. The man wearing the striped shirt is Chiru's father. They often show up during critical situations in the story just for the sake of being in it. Chiru! my dear son, look what Padmamma has bought for you! Silk shirt and Silk dhoti! Do you like it? It is good. Thanks, Padmamma. My darling Son! Look! You must wear it and walk from... He shall wear those only when he growing older What is this, sister? Happy Birthday, darling! Wear this T-shirt and jeans, you will look so stylish. Stop it, sister. One must wear a traditional dress on his birthday. Hi, Chiru. Happy Birthday. Look what your aunt has bought for you... Shirt and Pant... You must wear what I've bought for you, okay? No, no. Don't give him that. Sister, you don't know anything. What you've bought is so old-fashioned. (Indistinct voices) It is my fault that despite of knowing you all well I bought a dress for him. Son, you chose the dress which you want to wear. (Indistinct voices) I knew Chiru would only wear the clothes I was given Where is Chiru? There he is! What kind of dress is that? Everyone has given him one dress each. Poor chap, he made one dress out of all of them. It's okay. Come, let's cut the cake. Light the candles. You could have chosen anyone dress which you liked. Why did you do this? All four of them bought a dress for me with a lot of love. Had I chosen one dress, the remaining three would have felt bad. Didn't you think about this mother? I know that you won't feel bad. But, which dress did you actually like? The one which Padmamma bought. Ask him... Why? I and sister are born to you. Shwetha, Swati, and Ritu are born to other aunts. But Padmamma has no child of her own, so I should give preference to her over all of you so that she doesn't feel left alone, shouldn't I? Chiru... Chiru... My darling! He is so empathetic at such a young age, we should nurture this gem of a boy to the best of our ability. From now onwards, his toys, bat, cars, cycles, and even the girl he would marry should be selected with mutual consent keeping in mind that it should be the best for him. Okay, son? Done! If so many ladies are involved in the marriage of a man, the consequences are far beyond imagination. Poor kid, he doesn't know it yet that's why he is smiling. Once he is grown up... Chiranjeevi! the women in your family chose Pallavi from Palakollu as a probable match for you. What happened to that proposal? What about Rajni from Rajahmundry? Kamala from Kakinada? Gayatri from Guntur? Vijaya from Vizag? Good luck with your marriage. Go and change your outfit. Okay Master. DSP Song! "The sacred thread..." Will it be a part of my life?" "Will I get a chance to say that "this is essential for my long life"? "I'm tying this around your neck, my auspicious bride!" "Will I ever hear these sounds?" "May you live happily for a hundred years" "If life goes on the same way, I would end up with a miserable story." "The sacred thread..." Will it be a part of my life?" "Will I get a chance to say that "this is essential for my long life"? "I'm tying this around your neck, my auspicious bride!" "Will I ever hear these sounds?" "May you live happily for a hundred years" "If life goes on the same way, I would end up with a miserable story." "Instead of getting me married, you are shaming me with a hoax." "Instead of finding me a bride, you are making my life a living hell." "Instead of getting me engaged, they are taking my life apart." "Show me the auspicious star - Arundhati instead I'm being dazed off by showing stars in daylight." "The sacred thread..." Will it be a part of my life?" "Will I get a chance to say that "this is essential for my long life"? "Instead of getting me married, you are shaming me with a hoax." "I asked you to make me a bridegroom but you made me a scarecrow." "My life is devoid of the charming first night instead you have gifted me nights filled with frustration" "Instead of sending me on a honeymoon they made me sleep alone under the moonlight. " "The sacred thread..." Will it be a part of my life?" "Will I get a chance to say that "this is essential for my long life"? "I'm tying this around your neck, my auspicious bride!" "Will I ever hear these sounds?" "May you live happily for a hundred years" "If life goes on the same way, I would end up with a miserable story." Madam take this.. it looks good. -Give... Hello, tomatoes! Hello, I am calling you tomatoes! Tomatoes! Tomatoes! Just a minute, I'll be there. How many kilos do you want, madam? Two kilos. Please take it, it is all for you. Hey... I've been shouting for a long time but you couldn't hear it but as soon as this girl gave you a call, did you get wheels under your feet? What kind of call is it? Tomatoes! Tomatoes! That too with such a husky voice. Did you hear that madam calling... she sweetly said - tomatoes! Even we have feelings, we don't respond to harsh callings. Let the prices go down. I'll take care of you then. I'll look for a job if the prices go down. We shall see... You? -Rithika. My sister, Geethika. Do you remember Sushila aunty? Oh! Yeah, yeah, yeah! I remember it now. Correct! My sister married her son. Oh, nice. I am... I know. Chiranjeevi! Adhi Lakshmi, Padmamma... But how do you know about me? How? From the day I came here, I've been hearing only about you, in fact, more than my sister and my brother-in-law. My father, mother, aunty... they were all thinking about inviting you to our home to talk about our matchmaking. Really? I was told you even sought my sister for matchmaking earlier. They were saying it is a sentiment that if you are the first prospective groom to look for matchmaking then she will automatically get a better groom So, if you would visit our house. When will you come? Chiranjeevi? Get lost. What happened? Do know that Geethika? Which Geethika? The one whom you rejected because she has small eyes and looks like a Chinese girl. Oh! That Geethika! What happened to her? Nothing happened to her. But her mother and sister have been talking about me since they came here. Regarding what? What else? That, if I go to their house asking her hand for marriage then she will get a better groom for marriage. How dare she! I've heard the same thing about Chiru outside. Shut up! In Athreyapuram, we know a girl who is... I don't want Oscar, I just want the movie to be released. What did you say to your girlfriend yesterday? I said, I might get married before my uncle gets married. Get lost. Haven't you heard? What shall we do now? You don't have to do anything. I'll take care of everything. I call that marriage broker right now, I'll ask him to arrange a meeting with the girl's family, we shall visit them the next day, approve the girl and fix the marriage. That's it! Sir... your stop has arrived. Which is the last stop? The next one. Then I'll get down at that one. But you said, you will get down here. Why do you care where I get down? Move your vehicle. Drive! Drive! Where should we sit? We can sit anywhere... There! There is a seat. -Come, brother. We are just background actors. -Exactly! I won't be attending from next time onwards. All my granted leaves are being spent for his marriage matchmakings. This is the last one! I've used all the existing excuses in my office. The only excuse left is my own demise. What is this? Why have you brought us to the railway station? Does the girl belong to some other town? She belongs to this town itself. Who is he? He is the father of the bride. Father of the bride? Why? Do you doubt me? What are you doing here? I'm selling raw peanuts on the platform. The matchmaking program has been arranged over here! Here? On the platform? After knowing about your family, I thought of arranging it on the tracks. But then my relatives convinced me to shift it to the platform. We should feel happy about that. I heard that you find the silliest of excuses to reject the girl. If that is the case then you all should have never got married in your life. May I know the name? Buchhi. Nice name. Really? It's my name. What's your daughter’s name? Picchi (Crazy) Crazy? Yeah! What sort of name is that? My mother is crazy about her granddaughter. So she named her Picchi (crazy). What sort of name is Picchi? Don't you like it? Let us know if you don't like it, we shall leave. Buchhi is a nice name and Picchi is an even better name. Is it? -Yes What about studies? SLC Anyways, studies aren't that important. She should be able to take care of the family after the marriage, that's important. Why would she take care of the family? SLC is my qualification. Oh? What about your daughter? Can I see the girl now? Look, the blue dress girl. She's good. She is not our girl. She is a passenger. The one behind her, wearing a yellow dress. The Blue dress girl is nice but the Yellow dress girl is even better. Super! You would like all the dresses. Keep quiet Sir. Would you like to talk to the girl? Yes, we would. Shut up. What is there to talk about? If we finish the talking part here then what will we do post marriage? Play dumb charades? We shall talk to the girl only after the marriage. Any dowry? -No..no. We are strictly against the concept of dowry. You don't even have to shell out a penny for the marriage. We have our function hall. I'll tie the holy thread and take away your girl. What do you say, mom? She is saying okay. If you don't mind, can I ask something? Sure. When shall we fix the marriage date? Next month? Next week? Why so far? Day after tomorrow, at 4.30 am there is an auspicious time. If there is no objection from anybody, I'm okay with that date. Father-in-law is busy thinking about something. Nothing. I'm not thinking about anything. The marriage broker informed us about your family but didn't tell us anything about you. Your family is nice but you are even better, son-in-law. Son-in-law? Father-in-law, bless me Why are you falling on his feet? -Thank you, father-in-law. We shall inform you after reaching home. We shall call you. Yellow. Yellow. It always stops right in the road. You... It has been just two days since I repaired you and you have already given up. That mechanic dirty fellow should be blamed... You go Sir, sir... Help us, sir. Please, sir. sir... Help us, sir. Brother, please leave us. Sir, we want to marry each other. Please save us, sir. Brother! Brother! No! Who are you? The one who knows the value of marriage. Is the fight unavoidable? Yes, it is unavoidable. Go ahead. Stop there. Why? These glasses are very costly, I bought them recently. Hold these. Now, you can come. Are you married? Ew! I won't do such nasty things. How dare you call marriage a nasty affair! Come...come... One minute, brother. Marriage is a nasty affair? Is it a nasty affair? Are you married? Are you married? Tell me... Tell me. Yes, I'm married. Tell me your wife's name. Lavanya Tirupathi. Lavanya...? Tirupathi. Tirupathi. It is not Lavanya Tirupathi or Kajal Kakinada or Aditi Rao Hyderabad. How? One arrange marriage and one love marriage. Then why are you obstructing them? Sorry. Leave. Leave from here. Get out from here. Let's go. By the way, are you married? About to be... You also get married. Be happy. Sir. -What is it? Your scooter is over there. I know. I know. (Song humming) What happened, uncle? Why are you here? What happened, uncle? Our plans are up for toss before God's plan. God? What happened, dad? Sorry, son. I didn't expect this. Everyone seems fine. What's the problem? I am asking you all, what happened? Yesterday, we went to the railway station. Yes, we went. So? We saw the girl. So? That girl... Didn't you like that girl as well? Didn't you like that girl as well? Didn't you like that girl as well? That girl didn't like you. They rejected your proposal. Why? You tell... Yesterday you got over-excited about everything so they thought you must be having some undisclosed problem in you. That's why they rejected you. That means we have fallen from the stage of rejecting others to the stage of being rejected by others. Super! I won't ever get married. Fix! Okay, mom. So I'll be going there. Where? The Himalayas. Okay. Thank you so much. I love you all. Be happy with your husbands. -Chiru Chiru! -Chiru! Eventually they got me down to being rejected by others What is this Surya? Don't I read Aditya Hrudayam every Sunday? Is this what you've understood of my heart? Do you know the situation here? Imagine if the vehicle in front of you puts on a left indicator but shows a right turn from his hand and instead comes back at you in the reverse direction, that's how I feel right now. Am I frowning for not getting cashew in the upma? I am 35 years old, still unmarried. The ladies in my house don't understand this fundamental problem. As Phani suggested to me the other day, I should have opposed everyone and married someone. But how will I oppose my own family? If someone sees me in this condition, they are bound to believe that I am a nutcase. Hello. Look... I feel like you are saying hello from the heavens. Excuse me. Here. Where? Hi. Hi! You? Yesterday night, it was raining, you helped me... Remember? Yeah! It's you? Sorry. It's okay. Aadhya. Chiru. What are you doing? Nothing, I have a small function hall. I take care of it... -I'm not asking that. I'm asking, what are you doing here? Who are you speaking with? Oh! I was talking with the Sun. Because if we share our problems with someone else, they pretend to listen to you but then they make fun of your problems. So it's better to share your thoughts with trees, rivers, the sun, or the wind. By doing that, one feels relieved of his burdens. I overheard your blabbering. The girl who will marry you is going to be very lucky. First, let her marry me, I will be luckiest if that happens. We shall test her luck later? Okay. I shall leave. Bye! The girl who will marry you is going to be very lucky. Lucky? Why am I thinking about that girl? Chiru! Phani. Do you remember when we first saw Titanic... after returning home... we felt very bad for Jack because we wanted him to make out alive. Do you remember that? I had a similar experience yesterday. I had no thoughts about the girl when I met her but after I went home, the whole night I couldn't stop thinking about her. I didn't even have a proper sleep. I understood one thing, Phani. Love doesn't reside on the left side, in the heart, nor on the right side, in the lungs. It resides right here, in the center. It's like a wave. Whenever I think about that girl... I felt like the waves from across the sea came like... THUD! THUD! THUD! and hit me right here. I too feel exactly the same way. Why? There is a new brand called Malabar House. I slept after drinking half a pint and then THUD! THUD! THUD! it started hitting me constantly. It's neither going down nor coming up. I am very serious... -Me too, promise. Swear on my mother. -I swear on your mother as well. Definitely, that is a lady driver. Rs. 500 bet. I could tell it before the vehicle stops. Ladies are Ladies, dude. Confused aliens! Is she the same girl? Hi. Is this your function hall? Hi. Keerthana. He is... -Don't worry, I got it. Phani! Phani. -Hi. Sorry, would you like some tea or coffee? No, no, no. It's okay. Hey, Krishna! What work do you have here? Why would we come to a marriage convention hall? To book a marriage in this hall. Please. Please, come. Come. Shri Padmavati Kalyana Mandapam. This is the main entrance. As you enter, on the first left turn you will find the bride's changing room. Hey, it is your crashing wave who is getting married. She's here to book this for her wedding. Don't get upset. Please. Excuse me? -Who is that? Oh! Sorry. Can we have a look from the inside? Yeah, sure. -Thanks. Come here... The girl at the railway station was just about average but even she rejected us. US? She is almost a Goddess. Instead of us trying and then being rejected, it is better that she gets married and walks out of my life. Leave. I'll have a peaceful sleep tonight. That would be better for her as well. This is the main hall. The seating capacity here is from a hundred to... -Hundred and fifty. Hundred to Hundred and fifty it is! That is the stage. We provide the decoration facility or you can opt for something of your own. We provide a discount on decoration. It's nice. Sentimentally, this place has a strong record of hosting all successful marriages. Did your marriage happen here as well? No. Let's go. Come, let's go. Dining hall. We don't compromise on food at all. No. No chance. Excuse me, madam. Because no matter how grandiose your wedding is, if the food doesn't taste good, the people will not be satisfied. True. Come. Come. Please sit. So, I would like to know all the remaining details. Why are you asking me? It's her marriage. You? You were wearing a saree so I thought it was your marriage, madam. Sorry. Ask your parents to meet me, I'll explain the details to them. Their parents are against marriage. They won't come. You don't have to worry, my friend is a feminist. He will take care. Can I have your number? She's asking for your number. Yeah... Please Is he asleep? Yes, he's in deep sleep. (Song humming) Only you can make him sleep. Wow! Even after these many years, I can feel the vibrations in my body when I touch your body. The vibrations are not from my body. Then? -Your mobile. God! Who is calling you at this time? Turn away and sleep. Turn away and go to sleep. Phani. I'm unable to sleep, dude. Shall I sing a lullaby? I can't stop thinking about that girl. Dear... It took a lot of effort to make my son fall asleep. I am talking to you, why are you dragging your son in between? Idiot. This is why he is still unmarried. Phani. Phani. Please help me. Dude, my wife is right beside me. We have had the luxury of privacy after many many days. How long will it take? -I'm coming. Then ask her what shall I do? I will ask her. I shall discuss your issue for the whole night and I'll get back to you in the morning. Good night. Good night. -Phani... Listen to me... He is always in haste. Did he cut the call already? (Song humming) Why is your body vibrating? You, naughty! Because it is my phone this time. Hello. Sister, Phani's phone seems switched off, can you please give the phone to him? What do you want from me? Are we not human beings? Don't we have a life? Don't we have desires and hormones? We too do have physical desires. We have physical fitness as well. What do you think, if we bear a child then we aren't supposed to have any desires? Should I practice celibacy henceforth? Do you know the feeling when a husband finds his wife alone? Do you know? Don't I have the right to be intimate with my wife? I'm not in the mood anymore. Turn away and sleep. Do you know that every father is also a husband to a wife? Waste fellow. Mental fellow. Cut the call. Daddy... Bloody hell do all the sleepless beings of this world want to be comforted by only me? Is it my responsibility to make them fall asleep? You donkey fellow... come here. You don't like to listen to good night stories, do you? You want me to swing you around, is it? That is what you expect from this puny being, right? Come, I'll swing you. I'll rotate you around so fast that you must fall unconscious with all the dizziness. You shouldn't get up for another week. Sleep. Sleep. Sister. Hey, give that to me. What happened, son? You all know that I love my sleep. But it has been two days since I slept. That means you have encountered something that is more dearer than your sleep. What is that, son? A girl. Girl? -A girl? A girl? Who is that girl? How come we don't know about her? I too don't know anything about her yet But she is disturbing me a lot, Padmamma. Do you like her? Is she good-looking? If he likes her she would obviously be good-looking. So, you like her. What's the problem now? I like her but I think I'm not strong enough to take a no from her. A woman only expects three things from a man... the first one is caring. You mean, getting her pregnant? That is carrying. This is caring. To know her likes and dislikes without asking her. To understand her problems without her telling them. To put it in simple words, to protect her like a fragile doll. The next one is courage. She must believe that the man is capable of protecting her from any untoward adversity. His company should infuse courage within her to face the mightiest of fears. The third one is... a smile. She prefers a man who can make her laugh heartily over a man... who owns cars and villas or has a six-digit income. No woman expects anything more than this from a man. We don't know if we have been able to give you the strength to face her 'no'. but we are very sure that we have equipped you with all the qualities that will make a girl fall in love with you. Will I like the girl? I'll proceed only if you give a green signal, Padmamma. My darling! "After talking at lengths for hours still something is left at the end, that's awesome." "No matter how far I am to you I still feel like you are next to me, that's awesome." "When you ask me, 'how are you?,' everything turns out good. That's awesome." "When you ask me, 'did you have your food?', my hunger vanishes into thin air. That's awesome." "After talking at lengths for hours still something is left at the end, that's awesome." "No matter how far I am to you I still feel like you are next to me, that's awesome." "All these many years..." " all these nights..." " without your talks I've been wasting my life all along." "All these many days" " in my life, I've missed seeing my dreams moving around like reality." "When you ask me to come to meet you, I arrive there an hour before. That's awesome." "After dropping you at your home and bidding you goodbye, immediately meeting you on the call is just awesome." "I disgust all those things that you dislike even if I like them." "No matter how busy I am..." " even if my mother calls me, I ignore everything when you ask for my service" "When you express your liking towards something, my likes also changes immediately. That's awesome." "When you praise the Taj Mahal, I feel like Shahjahan. That's awesome." "When ask if I am awake, my sleep asks my forgiveness. That's awesome." "When you disconnect the call because it's dawn, I start hating the sun. That's awesome." Hello. -Hello. Chiru, can we meet once? Sure. Where? Riverbay. Okay. I have been thinking about it for a long time, Aadhya. Who is this fellow? -Finally, I've opened up my heart to you. I would like to know your decision on this. Hi, Aadhya. -Hi... Hi... Did I bother you? -Nothing like that. It's okay. Hello! Vijay! I was being friendly with you because we were classmates in the law college. But that doesn't mean that you can propose your love to me. What is this, Vijay? What's wrong with this, Aadhya? Everyone falls in love. So, one must propose the other because they traveled together... or they travel with each other to eventually make a proposal on one day. Do you believe that nobody sticks together without either of these intentions? I'll join you guys later. Chiru, stay here. There is no one who wouldn't have either of those intentions. Be practical, who would want to be in an unfruitful partnership? Why do you think so? Chiru isn't one among them. I've been traveling closely with him for the last two months. I've never been this close to anyone. How hard would it be for him to propose to me? I don't think that he has that intention at the back of his mind. Such a pure and honest person. Why do you want to praise him in front of him? You could have said it otherwise. I'll be around, guys. I'm not telling this to you with him as a witness, I'm telling this to him with you as a witness. Chiru... I am fortunate that a genuine person like you has become an integral part of my life. Thank you so much for coming into my life. You asked me the other day to open up my heart to you. Did I? I must have... God created you for someone like me. Excuse me. It's mom. Brother, don't you love Aadhya? Leave it, brother. So you do love. What are you talking about, brother? Tell me yes or no for an answer. You are asking the same question. Brother? -Hello Phani.... are you so unemployed that you lifted the call at just two rings? Waste fellow... Chiru, are you not asleep yet? In my childhood, I thought a great deal about which moon is the real one... this one which is nearer to me or that one which is far away from me. I thought, this is closer to me... so this one must be the real one but when I tried to touch it, it wasn't real. If you hoax yourself into believing this one to be the real one as this is closer to you, that would be a lie. Unfortunately, the truth is even if that moon is far away that is the real one. Son, are you well? Mom. It's 11 pm. What nonsense are you talking about at this time? Mom, you don't know anything. It is because of Aadhya. Someone proposed to her... and she comes to me saying, you are not like the others, you are very genuine and it's my good fortune to find a good friend in you. Is she praising me or demeaning me? Should I love her or not? Mom, didn't she notice the love for her in my eyes? I don't understand her at all. Mom! Moreover, she said, God made Chiranjeevi for someone like Aadhya. But God has not made any girl for Chiranjeevi. The girl doesn't fall in love at first sight like a boy. It takes a little time for all this to happen, wait for a while. The most important thing in love is patience. The other day you said about only 3 principles. Now, what is this 4th one? You are torturing me like a small school-going kid. Go to sleep. It's easy for anyone to giving advice. You will understand my situation only when you are in my shoes. Aadhya, tell me. Where are you? Home. What are you doing? My mothers are cooking something and I'm waiting to devour the dish. And you? Nobody is there in the house, not even Keerthana who was supposed to cook. I was wondering what to eat. Why don't you order in Swiggy... which is, of course, a bad idea when I'm here. Do one thing, get ready, I'll get you some food. No, It's okay. I insist. You have never tasted my mother's cooking, have you? I'll be right there. Wait for me. Go slowly, dear. Okay. In that steel box, I have kept paneer jalebi. Don't forget that. Okay. By the way, I had made a solemn vow which has been unfulfilled for a long time. Why don't you fulfill it if you have spare time? All the solemn vow should be pledged when I have a son who would be approximately my age. It is not my cup of tea. I'm not even married yet and she wants me to roam around temples fulfilling her vows! Stop. Stop. Where do you want to go, sir? 302. -Two minutes, sir. Hello, madam. The swiggy delivery boy has come. Swiggy delivery boy? Hello, just because I am wearing a black t-shirt I don't become a delivery boy. Look behind...look behind... Okay, madam. You can go, sir. Please go. Assamese... get lost... Both of our houses are very near by Okay. What happened? You can share the joke with me... Security thought you were a delivery boy. I have taken so much trouble to bring you homemade delicious food and you are making fun of me? Sorry... sorry. -It's okay, I don't mind much. Anyways, the food is really delicious. It made me remember my homemade food. You never mentioned anything about your home. Your mom-dad... My mom is my dad. She is my everything. She is my world. What are your weekend plans? Weekend means to have a party, get drunk and lazily lie around... But I have different plans, I'm planning to go to Annavaram & Antharvedi temples. I have an unfulfilled vow. Okay. Yes. Excuse me! The sweet? If you don't eat that, Padmamma would kill me. I'll have it. I'll wash my hands and then... Okay, okay. Actually, Antarved Annavaram is a nice place. So it is going to be a good family trip, is it? No, no. It's not a family trip. In fact, I asked them to accompany me but they said trips to temples must be made at your age, we are beyond that age. So? Are you going alone? Who would accompany me? Let's go together? Sure. Okay. It'll be good. We shall have a nice trip. Hi. What are you doing here? I had nothing else to do and they called me. So I came. When you are married, why don't you stay at your home... I asked her to come, Chiru. Vishnu is out of town, I thought she must be feeling lonely. Nice thought. She would definitely be lonely if she was alone. Aadhya... Why are you sitting in the front seat? I feel nauseous in the back seat. And, I feel nauseous looking at your face... What? Please I see you are trying a lot. " Oh, my Aadhya." "Your company turns a car into a rattling guitar." "Oh, the distance between us has shrinked and the care has given birth to love." "Oh! There's no one like you." "Oh! No one is more romantic than me." "Oh! I'll plan for a journey to a place where only we both will exist." "Let us drive to a place that is not found in Google maps as well." "Let us search for a place where one can't differentiate between weekdays and weekends." "Columbus ventured on adventure just for fun but he discovered so many countries on his journey." "Let us discover a love nation." " Oh, my Aadhya." "Your company turns a car into a rattling guitar." "Oh, the distance between us has shrinked and the care has given birth to love." "Vemana's verse or Shakespeare's prose, whatever you say sounds like poetry." "Just like a last ball sure shot sixer, whatever you do results in a win." "There are many who have described beauty to me." "I have read hundreds of paragraphs on beauty." "But I saw the real beauty just now, that's your smile." " Oh, my Aadhya." "Your company turns a car into a rattling guitar." "Oh, the distance between us has shrinked and the care has given birth to love." Yeah, you are audible. Please continue. You are so selfish, don't you ever think about me? What should I understand? I have left my family to be with you. Look at Keerthana, Chiru. Please, don't say anything. When they were in love, they couldn't stay apart from each other but after marriage... After marriage, they can't stand each other. don't understand what is the problem, love or marriage? Chiru... are you listening? Yes, Aadhya. Actually, you have raised a good topic. But I feel the problem neither lies in love nor marriage, it lies within us. Because... when in love, the boy puts all his efforts to pamper the girl You & I, We will stand the test of time, Your smile has 1000W charge, I'll feed you food with my own hands after our marriage you soap the dishes and I'll pour water on them he would have made en-number of such senseless promises. These promises contain this much of his love but a majority of it is, his desire to marry the girl. But for the girl... the majority of these promises contain the desire to be pampered by the boy but the love in it is just this much. So if we want to increase the portion of love to this much and decrease the desire this much, what can we do? If there is a crisis between them, instead of blaming each other for the crisis, they should think collectively to solve the crisis. But nobody does that. This is what happens in general. But in my case, I believe... a girl... depends on the man for her freedom, happiness, love, care, anger, for everything. That is why a man should take all the responsibility on his shoulders. You don't have to worry about it, Aadhya I will take all your responsibilities. I can't promise you a wonderful life... but I can promise you a happy life. You might feel fortunate to marry me... but I would feel blessed to have you as my partner. I'll protect you like my breath. My love for you is... By the way, what was your question? Hey! Enough of talking, come. I’ll talk to you when you return. Okay, bye. Okay. We must have seen each other's faces in the morning, it has been an awful day. He feels nauseous if I sit in the front seat. He has already vomited everything. Shut up and sit. She is the heroine in the other film as well. Her saree is so pretty. Son, how was your trip? It went as usual. What happened? Nothing. Then, why do you look so angry? I'm fine! You should help me get back my son. Please help me. Madam... Please, madam. Sorry. Please continue. Chiru! Coffee! Are you alright? I am fine... how many time should I tell? Why are you yelling at me? I am not yelling... What is your problem? I know what you are thinking. Chiru is a good guy, he is very caring and the best in terms of understanding. Keep aside all of this, you said you feel really happy in his company. What else do you want? Keerthana? You know everything, yet you are raising this topic. You saw his family in my marriage. They were so compassionate towards me even though I am not related to them in any way. They will take good care of you. Think about it. I know you very well, so listen to me, don't miss such a great opportunity. "Is my love true or a hoax?" (SINGING SONG) "I'm unaware of it..." (SINGING SONG) "if one is aware of that then it sure isn't love..." (SINGING SONG) I feel worried about him looking him this way. " it sure isn't love..." Chiru... your father, and uncles are going to the market. Do you want anything? 5 kg happiness, 10 kg peace, and a ton of sleep. What is this Chiru? What else do you expect? It's been three days since I've been depressed. Did anyone talk to me at least? I asked you two times. You said there is nothing. How can I tell as soon as you ask? It takes time. Even the girl requires time to think it through. How do you know? Why else would you be depressed? Obviously, it is because of love not because of the rise in petrol prices. We are not girlfriends that you have to tell your problems to us, We are mothers! Don't worry, son. She'll come to you soon... There she is! She is already here. Aadhya? Hi. -Hi. How are you? -Come inside. How are you? -I'm good, aunty. I have to talk to Chiru in person. There is nothing personal with Chiru. He doesn't hide anything from us. Sister! -What? He left half an hour ago. -Did he leave? Sorry, Aadhya. It was all of a sudden. Your anger is justified. No need to be sorry. It was bound to come out in the open if not that day then some other day. Anyways, to open up one's heart is not really wrong. I am very restricted in my approach even towards the familiar people in my life but I became very attached to you in a short span of time. I have been able to be myself with you and all the credit goes to you. Whose upbringing is it! She is such a good girl. There is nobody like you. You can tell the girl with you is in trouble without looking into her face. You are really great. Aadhya! You are too much... You, your family, your character, your qualities, any girl would be lucky to have you as her husband. Because you deserve it. Like I have understood you, I believe even you would understand me. I understood. Listen to me. I'll slap you Don't say a word. What do you want me to do? Shall I harvest a bag of rice more than what your brother harvests? Or shall I bring peace between two rival villages? What do you want me to do for our marriage? I'll do it. Whatever you do This marriage won't happen. Our marriage won't happen. Why? My mother doesn't want me to get married. I didn't get you. My mother doesn't want me to get married. Why would any mother not want her daughter to get married? What nonsense are you talking? She has her own reasons. And she is 100% right. I'm not talking about right or left. The decisions change according to seasons. She might not want you to marry now but she might think about it later, don't you think so? She would not. I know her. You are being very harsh. I can't take it. I'm very sensitive. How can you stop our story midway? I came here thinking that you would be understanding. Forget about your mother, think about yourself for a moment. Oh? Should I forget about my mother? Why are you unmarried yet? My mothers didn't like any girl till now. Exactly. So, if you won't marry a girl if your mothers don't like her but even though my mother doesn't like marriage yet I have to marry you, is that so? Keep aside all the mothers. I don't want their consent in your case. Do you want me to marry you right now? I'll marry you right now. I don't do anything without my mother's consent. Because she is the most important person in my life. You are joking, right? You haven't done any fault that is to be dealt with seriousness, hence I'm saying this with a smile. But just because I'm saying it with a smile doesn't mean that you must not take my word seriously. I hope you understand. I hope you understand. I have a doubt. Why did you come here? Forget about me, marry a good girl and be happy in your life. Oh? Okay, okay. All good? Shall I leave? Bye, Chiru. Wait, dear. I have to talk to you. Tell me, aunty. -Padma, listen to me. You keep quiet. Padmamma, listen to me. You keep quiet. There's just one word. Don't feel bad... -Padmamma, listen to me. One minute, son. Don't feel bad for what I'm about to say, okay? No, aunty. Actually... One minute, Adi. Just one minute. The other day when Chiru brought food to your house, he left the dessert box at your home, the box which had paneer jalebi. I've reminded him multiple times but he keeps forgetting. Would you send it back this time around without fail? I don't care about losing gold but I can't lose my boxes. Do not forget, okay? -Okay Aunty. I said it, finally What is it? -Box. Box! Box! Chiru -Chiru! God does exist, brother. For all their atrocities over the years, He has brought a perfect girl to counter them. Why are you staring at us? Tell us your next move. By the way, where is Chiru? Where else would a heartbroken lover be? Forget about me, marry a good girl and be happy in your life. Our marriage is not possible. Chiru! By your laughter, I can tell that you have succeeded in your love life! This laughter is not what you think, Phani. Emotionally, after crossing anger, sorrow, frustration, irritation, depression, tension, there is a layer of emotion. Once you enter that state, your mouth opens up involuntarily, which appears to be a laugh. Super! Don't get sloshed. Your family would be heartbroken. They are the reason why I am being all melancholic and have been drinking. You are unstoppable now. Raise a wine. Your sight is a rare feat, Srivalli. (Singing Song) Go and get your slipper back This is dance step man. Your sight is a rare feat, Srivalli. (Singing Song) Did you get on? Okay. Pushpa! (Humming a song) Who is drunk? You or me? Come, come, come. Come... "Bless me" Chiru... Are you drunk? Padmamma, will you laugh? A little more. The pearls didn't fall off your mouth? Didn't you say, pearls would fall off the mouth while laughing? Chiru! Coming! The girl is short in height? Is your husband as tall as Prabhas? Didn't you marry him? You all are happy, aren't you? You passed the examination of marriage like the students while in the lockdown. But you want me to write it over and over again! Chiru... come inside. We can talk it out. Go.. go.. go.. Lakshmamma... Padmamma... Shanthamma... Sharadamma... Gauramma... Krishnamma... Listen to my sufferings. "What is this disarray? Enough of this rumpus." "Oh my God! Please stop this! My life has been ruined. " "Is Mahesh Babu your husband?" "Or does he at least have his looks? " "Didn't you marry him? Didn't you have kids with him?" "Are you Katrina Kaif?" "Do you have the looks that could kill? " "Didn't you get married as well? Didn't you also have three kids?" "You'll enjoy all the romantic gestures of your husbands" "but you want me to be devoid of a wife and remain like a fool!" "It is said, behind every successful man there is a woman." " But to ruin my success there are so many women in my life." "Women, hail to thee!" "Women, hail to thee!" "My friend will bring his wife along with him to the cinema." "Will he not ask about my wife? Will he not?" "In the evening, Subbanna, the florist on the corner of the street will hand me a bunch of flowers." "Will he not tease me over my celibacy? Will he not?" "You would happily walk towards your husbands as a good luck charm whenever they go out" "But you would snatch that opportunity from every other girl that might have a chance to do that to me." "Our neighbour, Venkaiah has two wives and I don't even have one." "Women, hail to thee!" "Women, hail to thee!" "Won't I dream of a wife who would wake me up with a morning kiss?" "Won't I be desiring a dream girl who would serve me drinks after dinner?" "I would love to sleep in her lap and binge watch shows, won't I?" "I wish to make an omelette for my wife when she's hungry. Shouldn't I wish that?" "You roam around wearing the sarees gifted to you by your husbands" "and won't let me gift something to my wife by obstructing my marriage." "You say that matches are made in heaven and when my perfect match arrives, you say no to her." "Women, hail to thee!" "Women, hail to thee!" Will I get some coffee or tea? I'm hungry. Will I get breakfast at least? If I find you drunk again, I won't even serve water to you. Since when did you start this new habit? My mind stopped working. What was I supposed to do? Did it work after being inebriated? Only a faineant person takes the support of alcohol. We raised you among us ladies yet you turned to such ill practices of men. Padmamma, I had already said this I can not take a no from that girl. You still encouraged me to pursue her. And now you are blaming me? Okay. I will bear the pain that she caused to me but none of you should get affected because of me. I will not repeat this. Sorry. Why are you being sorry? Adi, shall we meet Aadhya's mother and try to convince her? Brother... Keerthana has come to meet you, she is downstairs. Did you forget us after your marriage? Tell me what is the matter? Hello, aunty. How are you? I'm fine. How are you? -I'm fine, aunty. How is Vasu? Who is Vasu? Vasu is your... -His name is Vishnu, mom. Whatever. How is he? Yeah, he is doing good. Aunty, your box. Aadhya asked me to give this to you She sent herself Okay, aunty. I'll take your leave. Keerthana. The lid has been changed. Lid... I'll kill you. No.. no..no... Bye, aunty. Hey! Where are you going? Sit down. Why are you shouting at me? I tried to convince her a lot. It is a complete waste of time, you better forget her. Why the hell would I forget her? Okay, calm down. Keerthana, tell us about Aadhya's mother. Aunty's name is Vakula. She started from a small scale industry... but now she is running a successful industry that employs thousands of people. Keerthana... Why does she not have a good opinion on marriage? Will your boy come to my house after marriage? That is not possible. He is a man. I raised my child the same way you raised your kid. I didn't treat her indifferently because someday she will become a part of a different family. How would I send my daughter to your house? He is a man. Well, if he doesn't mind, he can be a house-husband and take care of the kids and my daughter would do the job. Is that okay with you? How is that possible? He is a man. I won't give my daughter's hand to your son. Why? Because he is a man. What does that mean? Should our Chiru do all the household chores and she would go to a job? You stop it. You continue. Many men can't even differentiate between their wives and their maids. They think that wife’s job is in the bedroom, kitchen, and other petty chores like washing and cleaning. No man in this world is great enough that a girl dedicates her entire world to him I had gone to her house to invite her to my marriage. What did they say? The generational gap was evident moreover it was a joint family. They refused to come to the marriage. In our generation, the joint family was when four-five families stayed together. But now... both husband and wife staying together itself is a joint family. Careful. Vakula... if a mother refuses to get her daughter married, society will not accept it. My mother followed her mother I was forced to follow my mother's footsteps. At least my daughter... should choose a new path. I have lost enough due to the interference of society. I don't want Aadhya to experience the same fate as mine. Aadhya, please try to convince her. My mom's word is final for me. She must have had a traumatic past. No woman would take such a drastic step for her daughter without any reason. So will we forget about them? Why would we? We have raised our child with such qualities that any woman would happily want to dedicate her entire life to him. These were the same words before making me fall in love. Keep quiet, son. You don't know anything about yourself. Aadhya's mother would definitely like you. He should get close to her for her to like him. You will help me to do that. Why would I help you? Didn't we conduct your marriage like one of our family weddings? Didn't we treat you as one of our own? Don't you have any compassion for us? If required, without your help I'll marry a second time but please do not get me involved in this. You are not helping me alone... you are helping your friend Aadhya as well. Don't forget that. What should I do? One small help. What is it? Nothing. Why are you tense? Vishnu is coming today. Didn't you say that he will be arriving tomorrow? But now I'm saying that he will be arriving today. She's gone mad. -Aadhya... my battery's phone is dead. Can you give me Vishnu's phone once, I'll make a call to you. Your battery's phone is dead? I'm all messed up with the excitement. Can I have your phone? Thank you. Hello, Vishnu. Ya, tell me. Where are you? -What happened? What? Don't change your words every now and then. Who changed it? And what has been changed? Hello, Keerthana. Ya, tell me. What do I tell you? Is it? -Are you fine? I'll call you later. Why did you call me now? Hello... Hello... Hello... Hello... She is a maid. So what? She is also a woman. What's wrong with respecting her too? Hello, aunty. -Please sit. Do you remember, I told you about him? He is like a brother to me. His family is also very close to me. That's why I wanted to personally request you. What is your name? Chiranjeevi. What do you do? I run a marriage function hall. My mothers also wanted to start a project just like you. I also visited a factory on my way, it is very good. If he could be here and observe your business for a few days, it'll be a great help. As a son, it is my responsibility to support the ladies of my house Aadhya said she will text you. Yes, she text me. Aunty, when can he come? Ask him to meet Saritha tomorrow. Thanks, aunty. Thanks Madam -Okay, Bye (Singing a song) If Aadhya finds this out, she will never talk to me. She will kill me if she finds out that I lied to her mother. Who is Saritha? Who is Saritha? Saritha...Saritha...Saritha... Who is Saritha? Tomorrow you'll see her. Tomorrow I'll see her... Tomorrow I'll see her... I feel I shouldn't do this without Aadhya's knowledge. Sita never knew that Rama had started his journey to find her. Did Rama not start it without Sita's knowledge? It was Sita's faith and Rama's responsibility. Aadhya is your responsibility. You can convince anyone. In the Ramayana... No, no. Bye. -Okay, bye. Wait...wait... We are sending you to her only because Aadhya too likes you. The goal of this mission might be your togetherness but... more important than that is your arrival should not cause a rift between Aadhya and her mother. Okay. -Okay, bye. Good morning, sir. -Morning. Why are you going without wishing me? Good morning, sir. -Get lost. Hey, Prem. I am here... Good morning, dude. Dude? Vasu, how many times should I tell you? We are friends only after 6 pm. This is a factory, here I am a supervisor and you are a driver. Understand? Sorry, dude. I'm sorry, dude. Why? I thought you will understand. It's my fault. You are right. You would never change. Whom do you want to meet? Ms. Saritha. Saritha? -Saritha? Saritha? -Saritha? Why did you get the shock of a lifetime? Saritha is the kind of lady... who never enjoyed any attention from anyone nor was loved by anyone one who has always been ignored by society, every second they look at this world with a sort of irritation due to all the built anger and jealousy over the years, they have lived their life devoid of laughter, love, compassion, and tranquillity, even if hundreds of people are working under them... yet they torture them and display their frustration on them and make their lives hell... Go. Okay. ...such people are found everywhere. But do you know where you will find Saritha madam? Here. She didn't give birth to us but she is a mother to all of us. Show Saritha madam to him. Hey... -Madam! I was just talking about you. May you live for another 230 years. You are good at everything except your duty, aren't you? Thank you. It is your... -Get out. Frustration lady. Hello, ma'am. Only ladies work here. If I find anything dubious, you won't be spared. Even my family has many ladies. Come... This is our palace. Hold my bag. I'm the manager, sir. Can't you manage my bag then? Bad joke. You are here for only two to three weeks so you must get adjusted very quickly. Don't give silly complaints If you have any problem, solve it yourself. Because I have my own problems unsolved. Okay, dude. Dude? Were you and Vasu not taught in your school to give respect and take respect? Good morning, madam. Morning, Chiranjeevi. Come. Good morning, madam. Sit down. Madam... A piece of word. Go on. Not all men are the same. Some men, like my husband, are good beings also. Call Vasu. Did you call me, madam? Come in, Vasu. Vasu? -Madam. When is Independence Day? 15th August, madam. Republic day? 26th January, madam. Gandhi Jayanti? 2nd October, madam. Very good. Tell me about your wife's birthday. Madam? When is your wife's birthday? It's in the summer... must be in November... Bloody fool. Why will there be summer in November? You are right. I'll take your leave, madam. Sorry, madam. Henceforth I'll refrain from giving advice. We must appreciate him, he is a true patriot. He doesn't have an ounce of patriotism in him, those are the dates of dry days. That's why he remembers them by-heartedly. She knows about it very well, that's how she made him a fool in front of his wife. No one is here? What do you want? I want to meet Vakula madam. Oh? Vakula madam? Come. Come in. Your good name? -Shekhar. Chiranjeevi. What is the purpose of your visit? Why is he coming with him? Hold this. Bro, come here... Madam! Who allowed him inside? I don't want him in front of my eyes. I would lose control of myself if I find him here for one more second. It's okay. Shekhar... please get out. Who allowed him inside? Madam! Ask him to leave immediately. Please, hear me out once. -Shekhar! Get out immediately. Madam, it was just a small lie. It doesn't deserve such a big punishment... Vakula. Bloody fool! Get out. Calm down. What would have happened to you had I arrived late on the scene? He was saying it was just a small lie. Why did she make a big deal out of it? Small lie? He lied about his wife's illness, took money from her, and lost it in the casino. She reacts the same way if anyone lies and cheats in matters where women are involved. Oh! You are Aadhya madam's obligation, right? Why? She blasted at him because he lied about his wife if you are lying about her own daughter and she finds that out, imagine your state. You come. Good morning madam... -Morning.. Everything will be ready, right? -Yes, everything will be ready. If we can finish packing today, tomorrow we can ship them out for delivery. How many of them are there? Okay. Madam is here. How are you, madam? I am fine. How are you, madam? Oh, God! I'm done. If she sees me... I wanted to meet all of you once. -Okay. Okay. What is this God? Why do you put me into such tricky situations? Hello. Morning. What are you doing here? Why are you looking at him so strangely, Aadhya? He is the one who came with your obligation. Your friend Keerthana brought him here. They are starting a similar project on a smaller scale, so he wanted to study our factory for two weeks and your mother agreed to it just because you recommended him. Yes, aunty. Thank you, madam. Thanks for your great help. Aadhya! Mom. When did you come? Just 10 minutes ago. -Give it here Did you eat anything? Yeah, yeah. Don't worry. -Good, good. Yeah. I wanted to see you so I came here. All okay? Yeah. You know the same drill. Court, cases, all same-same tensions. Are you staying or leaving immediately? I'll be here for another one week to ten days. Good, good. Come. Mom, I went to the factory on my way home. I saw Chiranjeevi. Yeah, Keerthana brought him here. You too texted about him. Yeah. If you are facing any trouble... Hey, your actions have never been a problem to me. You are not a typical daughter who is always demanding, you rarely ask for something It's okay, let him stay observe the work and leave at his leisure. -Okay. And by the way, that's for you. -Thank you. God knows what happens now I am done. Oh no! she is calling Yes, Aadhya. I want to meet you immediately I've a small work... Will you come on your own or should I come to you? It's okay... I'm coming. Hi... Had your dinner? No. Will you feed me now? Is your mind working properly? Do you realise what you are doing? I didn't expect this from you. I'm sure, I'll convince your mother. Already she has a good opinion... -Do you think my mom is a fool? If she finds out about your lie, all the opinions on you will be buried deep under the ground. Before she finds out, I'll somehow manage... What will you manage? I can't lose my mother for someone else I thought you have a lot of best qualities. Today I came to know of your best quality. You are selfish. If you continue to be this selfish, you have to live the rest of your life with only yourself. And, tomorrow if I don't find you leaving, I won't hesitate to tell the truth to my mom. Mom, Mr Chiranjeevi want to tell you something. Tell me, Chiranjeevi. Sister. Sumithra! How come you are here all of a sudden? Where is Saritha? She must be around. What happened? Two days ago, I saw Pravalika. She tried to avoid me. I forced her to come with me and after enquiry, I got to know that his father took him away within just two weeks of their marriage. She has been staying at her friend's place all this while. I got her here by asking her to have faith in you. Where is she? Why did you come back? Once you left my house, you should have gone your way. Why did you come back? Speak up. Speak up. Speak up. Speak up. Saritha. Saritha. -Aunty. Saritha. Saritha. -Don't stop me, Vakula. Have you gone mad? She is beating someone. Why would a stranger let her beat? She is Saritha's daughter. But why is she beating her so badly? Four days before her marriage, she eloped with her boyfriend. What do you expect her to do? Feed her cup noodles? Why didn't you just die? Why did you come back to get me insulted? You... -Saritha. Will we get our daughters killed because of wrongdoing from some useless fellow? Her anger is justified. Please calm down, Saritha. I am unable to bear the sight of her. Aadhya... take her to our home. She tarnished my reputation in public. You! Poor girl. -Poor girl? But just now you said that Saritha's anger is justified. Maybe someone accidentally helped her that day and maybe he caused the marriage to take place. If he sees the girl in this situation, maybe he would feel pity for the girl. If you are using so many maybe's in your sentence, maybe you are related to him. Mr. Vasu? Shut up, Prem. Look at his face... You are afterall a driver.. I am manager Both are not same. Dickhead! Hello... Yes, you. Just a minute. Just a minute. This way...here... Please, just one minute. What happened? What happened to him? Why did you become like this? Please... don't ask me anything. Why shouldn't I ask? I'm responsible for your marriage. I helped you both get married to each other and today when you both are facing problems how can I ignore it? What? You helped them get married to each other? Aadhya... -Where did I find you? You are staying here on the basis of a lie and on top of that if my mom finds out that you are responsible for ruining her life there would be no further discussions. You just leave from here. We will take care of our lives. How can I leave the matter unfinished? If I go home now, my mom won't serve me food. If she won't serve then serve yourself. You came here to torment me and my mom, right? Your dog is Tommy and my dog is just a dog? What? I don't have feelings or what? You and your mom's pain is suffering but mine and Pravalika's pain is not suffering, isn't it? You... Listen... The first time I saw you in the auto-rickshaw, I understood your situation and stood by you. Did I run away that day? I didn't even know you but I helped them get married. How can I leave them? Listen to what... -Shh! After I solve her problem... I'll leave from here and won't trouble you anymore. Promise? You are selfish. Not me. If you continue to be this selfish, you have to live the rest of your life with only yourself. Stop. I don't want to cause any trouble to anyone. What is Prashant's dad's name? Sai Krishna? What kind of a name is Sai Krishna?! He must either be a priest or a school teacher. Soft! -Exactly. Someone is there... let's ask him. Sai Krishna! Some people stand on the road only to say the address Hey knucklehead, where does Sai Krishna live? Why are you taking so long to answer? Is he dead? I'm going to his house. Follow me. -Come let's go. I'm tired of all the laughing, will you please take over the driving? What kind of a name is Sai Krishna?! This way? -Yes. I am very short-tempered, I might even raise my hand on him. He is Sai Krishna. Mr. Sai Krishna, they have come to meet you. What do you want? I am asking you. Speak up. How can I help you? Chiru... I'm asking you. Speak up. Chiru, speak up. What is happening in the world, sir? Wave after wave, wave after wave, more than three waves still more waves, sir. Monday and Saturday I won't eat non-veg, sir. Rajahmundry to Russia how much distance, sir. Same distance, sir. Russia to Rajahmundry. If you want to drink, you have to drink President medal... special status, Malabar house, dollhouse, royal arms, royal palace, silver strips, golden chips, calendar, white and blue, cold... boom. What did he say? (Speaking incomprehensible Malayalam) He is saying boom and he is saying home. What is going on here? What do you want? Speak up! (Sings Sinhalese song) (Sings Sinhalese song) Shut up! Hi, Prashant. How are you? Do you remember me? That day, I helped you. Ya, Ya, brother. I get it. Dad... they are my super seniors in my college. They are Bengalis. Yes, Shyam Singha Roy. -They don't know proper Telugu. So, why did you leave her? I no leave her. My father... I'm praising you, dad. My father and his goons, they came, kicked me, and brought me here forcibly. Okay. Okay. I said we are like a big joint family. Understand. Understand. She is very sad. Her mother beating her badly. Otherwise so many other problems will come. If my father comes to know that you are talking about her. He will kill me and bury my dead body in the backyard. If you won't come, I will kill you and bury your dead body in the same backyard. No, no, no. No, angry. Please, look at him. He is not a human. He is Hulk. He will bury all of us. Exactly! Nothing, dad. I'm not using my phone anymore, so they are upset about that. My dear super seniors, please go ASAP. If my father has a doubt then he will kill all of us and bury us in the same backyard. No... no.. no... How many people will he kill? Dirty fellow. Okay, sir. God bless me. God bless you, sir. Okay, sir. Bye sir. -Thank you, Sai Krishna sir. Sir, don't learn English sir. English is a very bad language. Shyam Singha Roy signing off, sir. Within a week, he was about to bring his dad to your home to talk about you two. We just got over-excited about the issue Well... you know, it takes time to convince the parents. Prashant said he will meet you in person. Don't worry, Aadhya. I'll take care of it. No need for it. You are my biggest worry. God knows when she will understand me. Sister, phone. Wait! Who is it? Who else? My son! Hello, sir. -Mom. Hello, sir. My name is Padmavati. You call me by the name of Padmamma. Do you still remember me? Padmamma! Don't utter a word. Don't you have two minutes of spare time to make a call to us? And why did you disconnect my call? I was busy, mom. Okay. Okay. Wait, Adi is coming on line. Chiru... Hello. -Mom... What happened? How is it going there? So far, so good. Will see what conspires next. How is Aadhya? She is fine. Mom, wait a minute, I'll call you later. Aadhya is calling me. -Okay. Hello. Hello, Chiru. Tell me, Aadhya. Pravalika convinced herself that Prashant won't return and... tried to commit suicide. What?? Luckily I saw her and rescued her. Is life all about love? Only a weakling would do something like this. Stupid. Aadhya! Pravallika, what happened? What shall I do? I was half-dead when he left me. Now that I am pregnant. What else do you expect from me? I don't have the courage to live nor can I ruthlessly kill my unborn child. You could have stopped me for the day. But I won't change my decision, Aadhya. I can only try suicide, if not today then tomorrow. Prashant. Prashant. Aunty, she is Pravalika. Prashant and her loved each other and later married each other as well. Son, what you are thinking won't happen here. Leave from here before my husband returns. Aunty, listen to me. Hey, didn't you hear what madam said? Get out. You wait man. Aunty, if you knew her condition, you wouldn't talk this way. Throw them out. Come. Hey! Don't you dare to touch me. Get out. Stop. How dare you lay hands on girls? The agitation in your son's eyes when he was in love... has vanished after he has married the same girl and left her for good. Chiru! Pravalika, stop. Please, leave him. I don't want to bother you anymore. Let's go. What will you do after going back? Commit suicide? She was about to die, aunty. Luckily we could save her this time. Dad, dad. Just a minute. I'll send them away. You wait here. Brother, I already told you. Please leave from here. You will create a ruckus here. Please, leave. Pravalika, please try to understand. Listen to me and leave this place. Do you know how much I suffered due to you? Did I chase you? Did I ask you to love me? Did I ask you to marry me? I believed you blindly. The last time I came, I thought marriage was just two papers and two signatures put together which can be easily annulled. So I left without saying anything. But when I got to know that she is pregnant and that she attempted suicide I couldn't stop myself from reacting, sir. I am the one who is responsible for all this. So first, kill me. Then you can do as you wish. Any wife would want to tell the news of her pregnancy first to her husband. Your wife must have done the same. But your son is in a position where some stranger like me has to reveal that news to him. Sir, I can tell by looking at you that you are a spiritual person. The legacy of a great devotee named Ravana has been that of an Asur... just because he tried to separate a husband and his wife. Dear! Son, when I was pregnant with him, the doctors announced that he wouldn't survive the delivery. Almost for 7 to 8 hours he kept us in a panic state, only then did he come out alive. Do you remember that dear? That day... My son won't commit any mistake that would belittle the fears that we experienced on that day. What do you say, dear? Take care of her. I am holding myself back for your sake Vakula. Ask them to leave immediately. What is this aunty? They won't have any problems henceforth. Believe me. I don't even want to see her face. Aunty, calm yourself down and listen to him once. You don't know anything, Aadhya. Why are you still standing here? Ask them to go and die. They want to live together and you are asking them to die? I'm talking to them, why are you interrupting me? How are you related to this issue? I am related to you, no? I am your daughter, right? What do you and your husband know about me? Pravalika. They don't know anything, aunty. Whenever I asked my dad to take out some time to talk to me, he always found some excuse to avoid that. He was afraid of what I might ask or what I might say. And her... She wants me to live according to her mindset. When you can't empathise with a girl inside your house you don't deserve to talk about girl's rights as well, mom. When someone wants to support a suffering lady who is not related to him... because he treats her as someone from his family, he need not be related to the issue to talk. Tell me. What are you doing? Nothing. I have left something that I really like with you. I was wondering when you will give it back to me. What is that? Sleep! Mom has invited you to tomorrow's breakfast. Why? Because you helped Pravalika. So you'll serve me breakfast and gift me thousand rupees as a token of appreciation? Why? Is it not enough? As you wish. I can't make demands on you people. And? You don't show it but even you love me, don't you? Mom is calling me, I'll call you later. Hello...hello... Bye! I keep my acquaintances till the factory, it is very rare that someone comes to my home. You can pick it up, no issue. Not a big deal, aunty. It's 9 am, so mom wants to confirm if I've had my breakfast or not. Padmamma. Same. I'm the only male child in the house so everyone pampers me a lot. Ask your parents to visit me once. It's okay, aunty. What, okay? Call them. They can visit the factory and I can meet them casually. What do you say, Aadhya? Yes, mom. Invite them. Okay. I'll take care of that, Prem. Don't look at yourself in the mirror Chiru, how are you? I'm fine, mom. We miss you, Chiru. Are you eating on time? -Is everything fine over there? Where do stay? Shh! Do I have to answer everything right now or can I answer it later? She is Ms.Vakula. Hello! -Hello! Lakshmamma, Padmamma, Sharadamma, Shantamma, and Gouramma. Hello! -Hello! You are calling everyone as mother. But who is your biological mother? Technically I am nine months senior since I bear him in my stomach for that period. But in practicality, all five of us are equal in Chiru's life Where is Aadhya? Padmamma is over-friendly with everyone. They met at Keerthana's marriage. She is at home. Hello Aunty. Hello! A girl doesn't have to look into a mirror to find out how beautiful she is, she can just peek into the eyes of the people staring at her. May God save you from evil eyes. Aadhya... I have brought paneer jalebi for you. You must finish the entire box. What is it, Aadhya? What are you thinking? Aunty has become very close with Chiru's family. That is the problem Pravalika. If she is suspicious and she finds out about the lie, she will just be angry. But after trusting them, if she finds that all this is a hoax, she can't bear it. And that too... if she finds out that I knew everything and yet I chose to remain silent... My mom is my first and foremost priority. Instead of aunty finding out the truth from a third party it is better that you confess everything to her. Lakshmi wandered around 4 gold shops to buy that chain. You are treating the factory workers as your family members. She is not only providing for their children's education and their basic necessities... but has also given them a permanent house to live in. Not every rich person gives back to society. Thanks, madam. You are doing so much for us. Our madam is a great personality, brother. That's enough. Prem... which food item is the best dude? The way you say dude is the best, dude. Sit down, aunty. What happened? You seem to be engaged in a serious discussion. Nothing. We were talking about you. If we forget to keep the curd inside the refrigerator, we have a discussion with each other for ten minutes. Whereas, you are single-handedly handling factory, business, home, how is it possible for you? Oh! Because of Aadhya. I had lost all hopes in my life. I thought it was a dead end. Aadhya was right years old. One day she came to me and said, mom, did I commit any mistake? I said, why do you say so? Do you know what she answered back? She said, mom, you say that your world rotates around me then what conspires in your life is directly related to me. That means if you are upset I must have done something wrong. I promise I won't repeat that mistake ever. At that moment, I said to myself that I should never let her feel what she had felt that day. My daughter is unique and the trust in her is my strength. Your strength is your Chiru. Your upbringing is reflected in his character. You have done a wonderful job as a parent. Chiru... you are lucky to grow up amidst so many ladies. It is not a big deal to earn wealth and assets but to earn the trust of a woman one needs a strong character. Take care that your actions would not malign their reputation under any circumstances. Why are we leaving, sister? Shall we once... We shall discuss this at home. But sister... Gauri! Hi, brother. Hello! If you all are here then why did she go to madam's house? Who? Padmamma. Vakula. Do you always keep smiling? Many years ago, I was like everyone else. The life of a woman is never complete without bearing a child. So the fact that I didn't have children was reminded to me multiple times which eventually wiped off my smile. I thought this was my fate until my death. When Chiranjeevi was born, he was first handed over to me. At that moment... the smile that was long lost suddenly came back and it has stayed since then. This is not my smile, it belongs to him. Vakula, do you like plants? Only plants are devoid of gender bias. Even Chiru loves plants. We have them all over our house. Each one has been planted by him. You should visit our house once, 24x7 it's a happening place; it is always full of laughter. If you would spend some time in our home, you would relinquish the factory and all your work and choose to stay back with us. I would definitely like to visit you once in a while. Why once in a while, if you agree to it, Aadhya's home is your home too. Chiru loves Aadhya very much even Aadhya loves Chiru. Chiru and Aadhya got separated for your sake. That's why we decided to send Chiru here. Did you hear, Vakula? I warned you about him the very first day. You said I have a pessimistic view. Now, what do you say? My view was spot on. Ms. Saritha... Do not talk. You too are ladies. How could you think of cheating a fellow lady? You must be faulted in the first place. Mom. You shut up. What is this, Aadhya? They are strangers, leave them. But you know your mom very well, how could you do this to her? You were her only solace but you proved her wrong. You must be blamed first. What sort of upbringing have you given? Why talk about your upbringing? Why? Did I hurt your ego? You must have thought before doing all this. Why are you talking condescendingly? I'm still talking. You must be happy about that. Sister, we don't deserve to hear all this. Come, let's go. What are you waiting for? Vacate the place. Shameless people. Madam, please stop. -Why? Why? I said, stop it. Whatever happened here doesn't require you to shout on top of your lungs. Came for the girl he loved. He didn't cheat anyone. Did he misbehave with anyone? Did you find even a single fault in him? His visit has only benefited some lives but didn't cause trouble to anyone. Vakula... both the children respect our likes and give importance to our happiness. There is nothing wrong with us thinking about their happiness. I can't bear him being upset because of any reason in this world. Whereas today, I've become the reason for his pain. My heart is unable to take it. Vakula, you are much younger than me but I beg you folded hands. Mom. "Many stories have turned out to be mere dreams. This story seems to be heading the same way." "One's emotions travel through length and breadth when in love. No love is devoid of all the hardships of that travel." "This journey began with a desired destination in mind." "It has now lost its way and no one knows where it's headed to." "Many stories have turned out to be mere dreams. This story seems to be heading the same way." "One's emotions travel through length and breadth when in love. No love is devoid of all the hardships of that travel." Aunty, it was me who messaged you without Aadhya's knowledge. She didn't know about that until she came here. Aadhya asked Chiru to leave immediately for your sake. But due to circumstances... There is no fault of Aadhya in all this. You are her priority. "How will this heart recognise this burden is due to which heartbreak?" "How will the sight find out which grief has caused the tears?" "The thousands of memories in my conscience asks me an unanswerable question." "How can one separate the paths of two feet which have travelled together for thousands of steps?" "Many stories have turned out to be mere dreams. This story seems to be heading the same way." "One's emotions travel through length and breadth when in love. No love is devoid of all the hardships of that travel." What happened, Aadhya? What happened, mom? If your world rotates around me then whatever conspires in your life, the responsibility falls on me. If you are upset then it means either I must have committed some mistake without my knowledge or... your world has changed its course. My world has not changed nor have you committed any mistake. You are my first priority I met Chiru to ask him to leave along with his family. When you said, you don't know about my mother, I thought I just had to gain her trust. But after seeing her from close proximity I feel that you were right all along. I won't be able to tolerate the burden of guilt If your mother takes any drastic decision regarding you. That's why I'm leaving without disturbing any of your lives. Each man has different problems and unique solutions to those problems. But for a woman... understanding the problem itself is a solution I'll miss you. Usually, a boy says 'I love you to his lover but I must be the first guy in history who is saying 'miss you' without ever saying 'I love you'. Till now, I was the only one who thought about you. But in this case, even he thought about you. Unfortunately, you came to know the truth through a third person. Let's stop it here, mom. Their chain has remained with me, I'll send it back with Keerthana. What happened, Padma? Who is it? What are you staring at? Come. Come inside. Invite them inside. You go. Padma. Come. Come, dear. Please sit. Please have a seat. I wanted to call you after Chiru waking up. Will you have some coffee? It's okay. No need. It will take another 10 minutes to get coffee or tea. They must be afraid that we will ask them something in those 10 minutes. Tell them, we won't ask for anything. Your chain had remained with us, I thought I'll give it back to you. Give, Aadhya. There was no hurry. You could have given it anytime. There was no hurry. Anyway, I wanted to meet you. I'll leave, Adi. Wait, Padma. They have come to our house. No, Adi. I'll blabber some nonsense and again it will create another nuisance. I have created enough ruckus already. Poor thing, he didn't say a word to him. Had he questioned me saying, Padmamma would you have done this had I been born to you? My heart is too fragile to digest those words. Everyone had it in their hearts and I said it openly. Did it deserve so many taunts? What's her name? The lady who has only this much, just half-length hair. Saritha shouldn't have spoken that way. I agree that was a mistake. I'm not upset with Saritha. So much was happening there yet you didn't break your silence, I'm upset with you. What could have I said? Had you been in my place, you too would have chosen silence. My past is unlike any of you. I didn't have ten people to support me. To cross a road, we depend on our sight first, then on our hearing capability. If you don't have either of them, you depend on your capacity to ask for help. I married a guy for whom respecting a woman was a far-fetched concept he didn't even acknowledge me as a woman. That took away my sight. Nobody in the family listened to my ordeal. That took away my hearing capability. When I thought about seeking help... on one hand, I had relatives who shunned me because of fear of giving money, and on the other hand, there were some who wanted to help but only with a return favour. But nothing stopped me, imagine the pain behind every step that I took in my life. In my life, placing trust in someone has always resulted in backstabbing. Hence, I stopped trusting people. After many years, I could trust Chiru... which made me acquainted with you. But the same thing repeated. What did you expect me to say, Padma? Vakula... you were alone and we were together but when it comes to our children, all of us are the same. Chiru had the option to reject all of us and get married to a girl of his liking, similarly, Aadhya too had an option but she believed that her mom was 100% correct. She gave priority to you and chose to forget Chiru. They gave us that importance in their lives. We must be lucky to have such children. We believed that they both would be happy with each other, that's why we sent Chiru and not to hurt you or cheat you. Don't I think about her? Not only did she never express her desires just because I might feel awful but also did she never express her anger when I misunderstood her. She bottled up all her emotions within herself only to make me feel that... with all the hardships in my fate, I also have such an amazing daughter. Mom, pull yourself together. Don't stop me, Aadhya. If this situation prevails for too long, I might have to call you 'Mom'. I know the pain when we are left alone. When I saw Chiru standing up for Pravalika who was left alone by everyone... I immediately made up my mind that he is special. If he had come to me and confessed that he did all this to get my daughter... probably I wouldn't have forgiven him. But, he decided to sacrifice his love because he didn't want to cause a rift between me and Aadhya. That made me realise that nobody can understand a woman better than Chiru. Does that mean, you agree to give your daughter's hand to my Chiru? We will take care of Aadhya as our own daughter. Chiru and Aadhya look good together, please let's get them married. We can't see him in pain. Please, agree to it. Pain? Which pain? We all have gathered here and are discussing his future. We are making emotional speeches to each other for his sake... and he is sleeping like there's no tomorrow. What's wrong with her? Which pain are you talking about? He has no pain nor does he have any love. Come on, mom. Let's go. -Aadhya... After all the problem has been solved... These ladies must be... Not that... Who has slept? Who has been sleeping, I say? It's been four months since I last slept. The day I first saw her, I lost my sleep. When asked why my eyes are reddened... I've been lying to everyone that it came in contact with shampoo Damn! Those who all are responsible for the absence of marriage in my life are great, the one who opposes the institution of marriage altogether is great, and this one who prioritizes her mother over her lover is also great. All of you are great personalities and I am a useless fellow, is it? Don't you feel pity for me that I'm a poor kid who had to face so much agony? I don't have the strength to fight you ladies. No God has given enough to any man so that he can understand your species. All I can say is... Ladies, I salute you. Aunty... Please Aunty... -Chiru... Chiru... Aunty... Please Aunty... Aadhya... come May you be blessed with a lifelong of togetherness. My darling!