Transcript for A Chance of Snow (1998) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [MELODIOUS MUSIC PLAYING] [WIND WHISTLING] Someone needs to stop Clearway Law. Public shouldn't leave reviews for lawyers. [WIND WHISTLING] Ow! [MAN TALKING ON TV] KATHERINE: Ooh! Brr! Hi, Aunt Katherine. [SIGHS] How are you, sweetheart? I'm fine. I know, it's not quite Christmas as usual, but we are gonna have so much fun, just us girls. At Grandma's? Good point. Probably be forced to frost precious little gingerbread man. Or maybe even stencil angels on to toilet paper. What do you think?[GIGGLES] But at least we'll be doing it together. And we'll make it fun, I promise, okay? Okay. All right, so where's your Mom? Kitchen.Okay. Maddie? MAN ON TV: ...and around the greater Minneapolis, St. Paul area. KATHERINE: Princess! Now take a look at the way... KATHERINE: Hey, Maddie? [GROANING] Hello? Merry Christmas to you too. Hi. What's this? What does it look like? A petition for divorce. I just signed it. Oh, Maddie. Somehow, Christmas eve doesn't seem like the day for man to put asunder what God hath joined. Well, maybe you can think of a better day. How about next week, on New Year's Day? Or next month on my birthday. Or the month after that on what was supposed to be the 15th anniversary of our wedding? Yes, yes, it's all right to feel sorry for yourself. Matt did you wrong. But your daughters are entitled to a merry Christmas. You're right. Good. So come one, snow's piling up, let's go. I like snow on Christmas. Make everything look new. Yeah. Well, Mother Nature's makeover is making driving a bitch, so come on. Let's go. Out, out, out. MADDIE: Kirby, let's go. You ready, honey?Yeah. What are you reading? Back Lash. Ah, I was gonna give you a copy of that for your 13th birthday. Good girl. Dad bought it for me last week. He said it's a good account of how women get jerked around. Have you read it, Mom?Mm-hm. What do you think? I think your father knows what he's talking about. Kirby, come on! KIRBY: I'm coming. Come on, girls. [WIND HOWLING] [DOG BARKING] Kirby, Ellie, careful, it's slippery. Brr! It's cold! Did anybody turn the heat off? Dad always does that. Okay, well, then, go on, I'll be right back. [MELLOW PIANO MUSIC PLAYING] [SIGHS] Merry Christmas, Matt. [WIND HOWLING] WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] MSP passenger, Rene Shaw, please report to gate number... I apologize for the delay. Sir, you'll have to get in line down there. They'll process you. We appreciate your patience. Trust me, we'll get you on your flights. Everyone will get to where they need to go. Hello. Here we go. Excuse me, ma'am?Yes. Is flight 118 to Chicago leaving on time? Well, I'm sorry, the airport plows are working as fast as they can, but we are down to one runway and that means delays. How long? Well, we're looking at two hours, maybe three on all departures. [SIGHS] Oh, we could practically drive to Chicago. Look on the bright side. It means two more hours of junk food and crossword puzzles before we get to Grandma's. We'll post new flight times as soon as possible and we're offering complimentary coffee in our VIP lounge for all our travelers.Thank you. Thank you for your patience. Okay. Can I help you, sir? KATHERINE: Decisions, decisions. Hey, Maddie, here's some news we can use. "Cosmetic surgeries you can do over lunch." "Wrinkles... Must you look like your mother?" "Orgasms, on your own. Guaranteed." Guess we don't need you guys anymore. Okay, I'll stick to the smart money. What did you think of Mother's latest? [SIGHS] She sent me a copy. But I haven't read it. Neither have I. Come on, eight volumes? My law degree barely required that much reading. I wonder if Dad reads. I don't know, but I'm sure if he did he'd say that Mother left out a few chapters. Like, "Tend your marriage as well as your garden"? Why do we always blame Mother? I mean, Dad is the one who had the affair. 'Cause she drove him to it. Hen-pecking wasn't his idea of foreplay. She made him do it? Come on! That's right. Since when are you an expert on marriage anyway? You can't commit to a bowl of goldfish. This thing with Matt is not gonna turn into some bonding thing between you and Mom, is it? Hey, Mom. Hey, sweetie. Let's go pay for this. Mom, when are we gonna call Dad? What if we're flying when we said we'd call? Oh, don't worry, sweetheart. We'll get hold of him. Did he tell you girls that he was flying down to Miami this morning? I think so. Pretty strange way to spend Christmas, huh? Daddy's probably sitting on Grandpa Hill's patio right now and getting a sunburn. I wish we could spend Christmas at our house like we always do. I know. CASHIER: Your change.Thank you. Have a merry Christmas. You too. KATHERINE: We know there is no such thing as a civil divorce. It's a lie and an oxymoron. MADDIE: Like, "happily married?" Look, I can be gracious about this. He can have his clothes, his golf clubs, definitely his pile of sneakers. [METAL DETECTOR BEEPS] But I'm serious. In a few months, after some lawyer trains you like a pitbull, you'll draw blood over the toaster. Well, it is a poor slicer. [METAL DETECTOR BEEPS] Jewelry? And the ring. Oh... uh... this ain't coming off. Ma'am, this is a metal detector and I can't let you go anywhere until it stops beeping. Look, I'm not trying to be contrary, but I'm telling you, it won't come off. It's like a barnacle. Ma'am, please. [RING CLATTERS] Thank you. The cold weather, Maddie, it shrinks pinkies. If only it did the same for hips. [METAL DETECTOR BEEPING] [PEOPLE GROANING] MAN: Come on, lady! Okay, okay. Relax. [METAL DETECTOR BEEPS] Do you have anything in your hair? What, like a grenade? Like a barrette? Oh. Sorry. [PEOPLE CHEERING] What do you girls wanna eat? Um... yogurt. French fries. How about you, Kat? Before we get to Mom's, I want to eat any and everything that's bad for me.[GIRLS GIGGLING] I'm game if you are. Quesadillas, corn dogs, chili fries. Ooh. Double chocolate marshmallow cone with sprinkles. [GIRLS EXCLAIM] BOTH: Dad! Hey, Kirby! Hold on, I'll be right there! Excuse me. What's Dad doing here? I thought he was leaving. Matt looks good. That trench gives him this sort of rugged war correspondent look. Katherine, shut up. He looks like a typical sportswriter. I gave him that because I was sick of his hooded sweatshirt. What's he doing here?KIRBY: Come on, Dad. Hurry! Let's see... Airport? Holiday? Trying to catch a plane? Hi, sweet peas! Daddy! Hi, pumpkin. You smell like Christmas. I thought you went to Grandpa's. I am. Just a little while. Hi, Katherine. Merry Christmas to you. Same to you, stranger. Boy, you really screw things up. Hello, Maddie. You look good. What are you doing here? I'm killing time, I was supposed to catch a flight this morning, but didn't finish my column till noon, so ran up a cab out here just in time to see the "delayed" signs lighting up the boards. Oh, well, now that you two are here... [GIRLS GIGGLE] ...I don't care if we're snowed in all night long. Well, you know we're on our way to Mother's, and I'm sure your flight is probably gonna leave any time now, so, girls, say goodbye to your father. Mom, Dad can eat with us! Dad, you're hungry, aren't you? I'm starving. I'm just starved. [KISSES] It's okay, I've got plenty of time. My flight doesn't leave for an hour and a half. Oh, well, great, uh... then... Why don't you and Kat go on to the restaurant, and I'll take the girls to the restroom. Okay? Matt, what were you thinking? I wasn't. Obviously. Excuse me. I just can't believe that you threw it all away like that. [SIGHS] I know. I know. Well, I for one, am gonna miss you a lot. I mean, even though I'm really angry with you, I still love you. Thanks. How are you holding up? Ah... Not good. The thought of not coming home to Maddie and the girls ever again. I don't want my girls growing up in a broken home. So how's Maddie? You know Maddie, she'll be fine. Few days, she'll forget all about you. I'm joking. Matt, come on. Let's go get something to eat, okay? All right? Come on. Kirby! KIRBY: Daddy! Thanks for my Christmas present, Dad. It was exactly what I wanted. Oh, you're welcome, sweetheart. I love you. [GASPS] What did you get? Dad bought me a charm bracelet. Oh, that is so pretty. Good work, Dad. KIRBY: I got a Vikings helmet signed by... Randall... Cunningham! And a brand-new catcher's mask. KATHERINE: Oh, that's cool! I ordered quesadillas and French fries for the girls. Good. KIRBY: Are you gonna take me to spring training or not? You said you would, but Mom said I'd miss too much school. You know what? Baseball season is a long ways off. I'll talk this over with your mom later, okay? KIRBY: Okay. I never should have let your father name you after Kirby Puckett. Good thing your Dad's not a Yankees fan. You could have been named after Catfish Hunter. Yeah. How's my little Catfish? Mommy! He's tickling me. Why don't you sit down, honey? Let's eat up. Daddy's plane is leaving soon. We'll walk him to the gate. Mom, Dad, since you're both here... I mean, I wasn't really sure when we'd all be together again, so I'd like to give you your Christmas present now. Open it now? Yeah. I'm taking it to Grandma Parker's. She's gonna help me decorate a cover for it. It's a photo album. Oh, yeah, this is terrific. Oh, Ellie, this is a great gift, thank you. Let me see. Where'd you get these? Up in the attic. They were in some boxes. Ellie, I really wish you wouldn't go through those boxes. They're personal. I mean, you wouldn't want me rifling through your stuff, would you? What, she can't look at her parents' wedding pictures? What's the point? I'll be back in a few minutes. Don't you have a plane to catch, Matt? Ellie, this is a wonderful present, sweetheart. I can't wait to see how you're gonna decorate it. I'll be right back, okay? Could you watch the girls for a minute? WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] All passengers, please do not leave your bags unattended. MATT: Hey. So you're not feeling nostalgic. Why take it out on her? I'm surprised you didn't cut me out the photos before you stuck them in the attic. Don't you turn this on me. If Ellie wants to document our relationship, then she'd better include a picture of her father and the tart that he took up with. I never took up with anybody. I made a mistake. A mistake?Yes. A mistake is spelling some jock's name wrong in your column and then printing a correction the next day. It was one stupid night. I never even planned it. So let me get this straight. I am home, cleaning house, feeding the girls, and by the way, trying to keep my writing career going to help pay the mortgage, and you're just on the road with a football team, writing a few columns and oops! Falling in bed with the team's PR girl. That's not exactly what happened. I don't want to know exactly what happened because I don't want to spend one more second thinking about how you did it. Just... Maddie, please, just... Will you sit down? [SIGHS] [SOFT, PLEASANT MUSIC PLAYING] Maddie, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I wish there was something I could... I signed the divorce papers today. Our process server will be coming by your office next week. Sorry to spoil the surprise. I won't be there. Let me guess, taking another road trip? No, taking another job. What do you mean? I'm flying to Connecticut on Monday, straight from my dad's place. That's why I'm wearing my one good coat. Connecticut? It's with the All Sports channel. Hosting a new show. They called me a few weeks ago, I did an audition tape, things moved fairly quickly after that. It's the best offer I've ever had. You mean, you're leaving for good? What difference does it make to you? For the past two months, you've made it perfectly clear you never want to see me again. You haven't even discussed this with me. You never returned any of my phone calls. What about the girls? I'll see them on the weekends, which, under your terms, is pretty much when I get to see them regardless of where I live. And just when were you planning on telling me this? Right after the holidays. When did you plan on telling me you filed for divorce? [SIGHS]Hill? Hill? MATT: Mr. Vickery. Good afternoon. Happy holidays. Speaking of facts, Hill, you got one wrong in that column of yours. I never said I was interested in selling my team. I don't know where you got that idea. You write it again, I'll see you in court. What, you think he just made it up? He quoted two different sources. Didn't think you still read me. You're married to him? Technically. By technically, I mean we don't have a court date yet. We're separated. We're history. Oh. Merry Christmas to both of you. And happy new year. Happy new year. [MELLOW MUSIC PLAYING] Just remember, you're the one who wanted to end it. Not me. Oh, no, Matt. You ended it. I just handled the paperwork. Boarding pass, please. Have a nice trip. I'll be back in a few days. How many days? Uh... six days. Remember, we're gonna have Christmas all over again at my apartment. Oh, maybe you can bring some decorations from Earl's. I got a tree, and I got presents. But we need decorations. Well, make sure you bring your Christmas stockings. Mine too. Dad, you don't have a fireplace to hang 'em on. Well, we'll hang them from... We'll tack 'em to the wall. Is this how we're gonna spend Christmas from now on? You know what? Let's talk about things when I get back, all right? Okay. ...passengers should be on board at this time. Well, it's time for Dad to go. ELLIE: Tell Grandpa Bill I miss him. MATT: I will.KIRBY: Me too. Bye, Dad. Bye. Merry Christmas, Katherine. You too. Merry Christmas, Maddie. Boarding pass, sir. Thank you, there you go. Hello. Hey, girls, penny for your thoughts. Okay, how about five dollars? I don't wanna talk about it, Mom. Me neither. Look, I know it's not fair, and I'm sorry. Do you know what, every family goes through something at some time. And in time, everything will work itself out. You'll see. But for now, it's just us girls. So what do you say we make the best of it, huh? Kirby?Okay. Ellie?All right. WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] Flight number 1312 to Denver has been delayed. Please check the screens for further updates. And Katherine? You betcha, hon. That was very diplomatic of you. And sensitive. For a moment there, you almost had me convinced that you didn't grow up with the same mother as I did. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Hello. Hello, Mother. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Hold on a minute, dear. There! Finito! I just finished rolling my last candle made from the beeswax of my first colony of honeybees. Now we're all gonna be bathed in beautiful candlelight. Well, it sounds nice, but I have some bad news. It's snowing in Minneapolis, our flight's been delayed. I don't know when we'll be leaving. Well, the roast is in the oven and is gonna be ready precisely at seven o'clock. I'm sorry, Mother, but I'm sure we're gonna be a lot later than that. If you're not here by 8:00, the entire dinner is gonna be ruined. Out of my control, Mother. You should have come yesterday. Remember, I said, "Why don't you bring the girls in a day early "so that I can show them how to prepare a holiday meal?" Goodness knows they're not gonna get much advice on menu planning from their mother. Well, they know that cereal isn't only a breakfast food. In fact, last night's dinner was cereal. Madeline! Uh... Look, before I go, do you want to tell me what you're doing conspiring with Ellie on this little photo spread of fairy tales? Oh, you know about the album? Well, wasn't my idea of course, but when Ellie called me and asked me to help her, how could I refuse? I was just trying to be helpful. I know you've always been fond of Matt, but you just don't understand how I feel. In fact, you of all people should know how I feel. This is not about me. Now, your daughter has worked tremendously hard putting together that little book of memories. And I want you to accept it. Graciously. In case you haven't tuned in, this little book doesn't have a happy ending. Well, maybe it still can. You really are the queen of make-believe. Um... Look, I gotta go. I will call you as soon as I know anything. I'll talk to you later. [SIGHS] [SIGHS] [PEOPLE EXCLAIMING DISAPPOINTEDLY] MAN: I told you we should have left yesterday, but no, you didn't want to listen to me. I heard a plane crashed. Honey, I don't know where you get this stuff, the plane did not crash, it skidded off the runway. Supposedly started on fire... It skidded... I just talked to the guy.Miami, was it? Miami? Just left...Do you know the airline? MSP, I guess, I don't know. Excuse me, folks. Stand back, please. Excuse me, Officer. Did the plane crash? My husband was on the plane to Miami. Which one? I'm not sure, he just left. Ma'am, it would be better to check with his airline. Did something happen? I don't know, ma'am, if you check with Gate 42, straight down, on the right. They should have more information. MAN: [OVER WALKIE TALKIE] Security, what's the status?Paramedics are on their way. They should be there in another three to four minutes. [OVERLAPPING CHATTER] I'm afraid we don't have much information at this point. What we do know is that there was too much snow, the pilot had to abort take-off. And apparently, the plane slid into a snow-bank. Is anybody hurt? We'll give you more information as soon as we can. [TENSE MUSIC PLAYING] What's going on? It's Matt's plane. Is Dad okay? What happened? I'm sure everything is fine. Let's sit down. Okay? We'll sit down and wait for them to tell us. Mom, did they crash? Did you see anything? No, I didn't see anything. There's just so much snow that the pilot had a hard time taking off. Mom, is anyone hurt? I don't think so, honey, but they don't know for sure. I'm sure Daddy's fine. MAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] Attention, please. Anyone waiting for passengers on-board MSP Flight 1102 to Miami, the plane is now safely returning to Gate 75. Can I get you another one? Oh, no, no, it's okay, thanks. You look like you must have someone on that plane. Yeah, my 10-year-old son. Oh, I'm sorry. I let him fly alone. It was the first time I let him fly alone. Dad!Oh, Jason. You okay? The plane felt like it was gonna crash or something. Then everybody started freaking out. Some people were even pushing and shoving to get off the plane. Are you sure you're okay?Yeah. Ah, this is my son, Jason. I'm Craig Johnson. Oh. Katherine Parker. Katherine Parker. Say, uh... Katherine Parker from Valley View Elementary School? Yes. We were in Miss Miller's third grade class together. Don't you remember, we used to... We made a couple of milk break runs together. You go down to the cafeteria with a box, count out 27 little cartons of milk? Oh, come on, we sat next to each other in the first row. I used to give you answers in math class. Were you that kid that used to make all those barnyard noises? [IMITATES ANIMAL] [CHUCKLING] No, that was someone else. So, what have you been up to? I'm an attorney now. Oh, okay. Prosecutor? Public defender? Mergers and acquisitions. Ooh. Well, I better go. It was nice to see you again. Yeah, great to see you. Great to see you. Nice to meet you, Jason. Thanks, bye. We went to grade school together. ELLIE: Dad! Ellie! Dad! Hi, Kirby. Are you all right?Yeah, not a scratch. Wasn't half as wild as being on the field after the world series, remember that? That was scary.Sure was. Dad, what are we gonna do now? Well, uh... We can't fly. And we can't drive. So, unless they rent out sleighs, looks like we're stuck together. I have to tell you something. Hey, you know what? I'm gonna go see if I can get some information on our flights. Great. Who wants to come with me? BOTH: I do! [CHUCKLING] Let's go. We'll catch up with you. Bye, Mom.Bye, girls. Matt says he's moving. He tells me this right before he gets on the plane. Can you believe it? Moving?To Connecticut. Some deal with the All Sports Channel. My life is going down the toilet and he's gonna be on TV. Guess Matt finally realized you weren't gonna take him back. He's gonna be shuttling the girls around every weekend. Don't you guys think it's time to tell them that you're getting divorced? We decided to wait until after the holidays. But they suspect. WOMAN: How much longer will it take? I'm sorry, ma'am. I don't know. Dad. It starts with an "S". Six letters across. It's the name of a planet. You know that. Sa... Saturn?Yeah. S-A-T-U-R-N. I got it. Can you open this for me, Daddy? Sure. Thanks. Dad, why can't you come to Grandma's? You already missed your plane. A light that shoots across the sky. Eleven letters down... Kirby, remember what we talked about? Yeah. You and Mom needed time. But haven't you had enough time? [MELANCHOLY MUSIC PLAYING] I promised my Dad I'd spend Christmas with him. You know how important it is to keep your promises. Do you think I should cut my hair like this? No, I like your hair. Oh, great, it's broken. Come on, let's go get some coffee upstairs. What about the color? Maddie, you look great. I don't feel great. Don't be so hard on yourself. I'm just so angry with him. You've made that perfectly clear. You know, ever since we split up, you have done nothing but minimize what Matt did to me. Maddie, what he did was horrible and stupid. And when I found out about it, part of me hated him for it. But I know you guys, I know how much you love each other. After 15 years, don't you at least want to hear what he has to say? No, I don't. Look, Katherine, he destroyed everything we had together. He betrayed my trust and sorry is not enough. And stop being so nice to him. Maddie, he'll always be Ellie and Kirby's father. Yeah, well, he won't always be my husband. All right. WOMAN: [ON TV] Hi, everybody. Meteorologist Rebecca Kolls. The winter storm we've been watching has now turned into a severe winter storm. Officials are saying, "Don't travel." Roads are impassable around the state of Minnesota. We've just received word, Minneapolis' St. Paul International Airport has been closed. Keep in mind, this is the same system that dumped three feet of snow in the Omaha area. Before all is said and done, we're expecting 18 to 24 inches around the Twin Cities metro area with visibility down to zero. Well, your flight's now gonna leave at midnight, and mine's at 11:00. Fine.Great. That means the girls and I have plenty of time to get a last-minute gift for Grandma. Okay, let's see, shopping in the airport. How about a travel toothbrush? GIRLS: No! KATHERINE: Okay, a couple of mats? Boring! How about a pill box? BOTH: no! All right, well, we'll see you guys later. Oh. Uh...Okay, come on, girls. Katherine...Come on. Kath... How is your mother? Fine. How's everything working at the house? Fine. You remember to run a little water so the pipes don't freeze while you're gone? Fine. Was I supposed to do that? Yes, of course. Oh... I got it. Here. Here. [LAUGHS] I remember this party. Scout's first birthday. God! It was before Ellie was born. Oh, I used to love those hardwood floors. Why did we ever carpet them? Because Ellie started crawling. Oh, that's right, the wood was hard on her little knees. Yeah. Well, nothing much to remember about that. MATT: Wait, wait, not so fast. I remember a beautiful bride, and a lucky groom, and a wonderful day, with lots of snow. More like a snow job. 'Cause I remember making some vows, and they didn't include making room for a third party 15 years down the road. Come on, Maddie. Do you really hate me that much? Hate you? I'm hurt, sad, obviously angry and terribly disappointed, but hate you? No. I don't have energy left for that. We're not the only couple in the world to go through this. Look at your parents. My parents? They could have worked something out if your mother had gotten off her high horse long enough to give your dad half a second chance. I'm not like my mother. You know what they say, the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. I didn't mean that. You'll be hearing from my lawyer next week. Fine. You'll be hearing from mine. Fine. Then you'll be hearing from mine, again. You'll be hearing from mine again. Whatever. You'll be paying for both of them. She's got you. [MELANCHOLY MUSIC PLAYING] Dad's here. MERILEE: Your father's at the airport? With your mother? Not with her. But he's here. And I've made things worse. What are you talking about? Showed them the photo album, Grandma. All I was trying to do was help them to remember some good times. They acted as if they couldn't remember a thing. Oh, honey, don't cry. Your mom and dad had wonderful times together. Tons of them. Even if they are too stubborn to admit it. Grandma? You think they still love each other? Of course they do. Why don't they just try and work things out? I don't know. I just don't know. REBECCA: [ON TV] Good afternoon, everyone. Meteorologist Rebecca Kolls here. The flakes are flying, and unfortunately it looks like it's going to be worse. Those of you who wanted a white Christmas, you're definitely going to get your wish. Traveling is going to be hampered. In fact at the international airport, efforts are up, trying to keep the airport running. The snow is coming down quickly, and it looks like it's gonna continue to get worse throughout the afternoon. Can I get it gift-wrapped? SALESGIRL: Gift-wrapped? [GROANS] Here you go. I'll just take the ribbon. Grandma is going to love this. There's enough rice here to fill an entire barnyard of body cavities. Of course, she'll probably complain that she'd rather rip it open, and throw fistfuls at me and my mystery groom. Boy, you're gonna make somebody very happy with that. Hi. You know, about a century ago, they would harvest this rice by the light of the moon. You always were a pretty smart kid, weren't you? Where'd you wind up going to college? I went to art school in Chicago. Ah, really? So you're an artist. Painter. Oh, really? What kind? Houses. I am a house painter. Well, for now. You know, with the new life and Jason, in a way it seemed like a more reliable way to pay the bills. So you're married. No, no, my former wife decided she didn't want to stay home and play house. So we haven't seen much of her since Jason was born. I'm sorry. Oh, yeah, my life is miserable. Look at that guy. No, it's great. You know, people pitch in. He's going down to spend Christmas with his grandparents in Florida. He's gonna have a great time. Okay. WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] Katherine Merilee Parker, please pick up the courtesy phone. Katherine Merilee Parker, please pick up the courtesy phone. Girls, come here, your mother. Come on. Well, excuse us. Nice to see you. Maybe we'll see you again or otherwise, Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas to you too. Come on, girls. Oh, Katherine, you might need this. Oh! Yes, I need that. Bye. So long. [BELL CLANGING]Ho, ho, ho! What do you think you're doing, dumping me with Matt? I thought that maybe if you'd just spend some time together, you'd kiss and make up. [BELL CLANGING]Ho, ho, ho! What? I can't hear you. Hold on one second. Hey, Santa, please, give it a rest, okay? Thank you. Give me back my daughters. Sorry, Maddie, the girls stay with me. You two need to hash some things out and I'm not just talking about the divorce. Have you told them yet about... No! Are you insane? [SIGHS] I'm waiting for the right time. You're almost out of time. Now, go talk to him. The girls and I will meet you at the gate later. Call disconnects.Kat... Kat... WOMAN: [ON TV] ...and the best part for people traveling, the people stranded at the Minneapolis St. Paul International Airport, well, is that runways are open, so they're gonna try to get some of the people shuttled out of the airport so they can get home for the holidays. [CONTINUES SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] ...eight inches of snow in the last two hours. That's a lot of snow! Also right around the St. Croix River... Hi. Howdy? Earl Pulmer. I noticed you and your wife at... at the restaurant this afternoon. You two seemed to eat and run. Matt Hill. You know what Socrates said? What? "You get a good wife, you'll be happy. "You get a bad one, you'll become a philosopher." Poor guy. Do you mind if I sit down? Oh, please. Thank you. My! That looks good. Just like Mom used to make. Oh, yours too? Mine even grows her own apples. I remember you. You and your husband were at... You must think we're awful. Oh, having had a misunderstanding or two with my husband of 49 years, I would say the two of you looked about normal. Unfortunately, what you saw was not a normal dispute between a husband and wife. We've been separated for two months. Oh, I'm sorry. There were times when things were pretty awful between Earl and me, but after all, marriage is not for the faint-hearted, is it? I'm just sorry you had to witness our problems first-hand. Oh, there's nothing like a good crisis to sort things out, is there? Crisis is a wonderful word. It comes to us from the Greeks. It means "to choose." I'm a retired English teacher. Ruth Pulmer. Maddie Parker. Hi.Hi. 49 years with Mrs. Pulmer. Going for the gold next summer. Well, congratulations. That's... It's a feat for the record books. 50 years. My wife kicked me out after 14. Ouch. What did you do to deserve that? Probably a number of things, but the big one was sleeping with someone else. Sounds like my nephew. He made the same mistake. Twice. And now he's on his third till-death-do-us-part. Let's see... Two sons and a daughter from his first marriage. Two daughters from his second. Stepson from his third. Me, pretty simple. One wife, two burial plots. So what do you write? Children's books. I was a reporter and then I quit when my daughters were born. I started writing stories during their nap-time and it turned into a second career. What does your husband do? My soon-to-be ex-husband is a sports writer. Well, that's exciting. Do you get to go to the games with him? Well, it's kind of a sore point at the moment. Um... Matt came back from a road trip for one of the Vikings' away games, and the dry cleaner presented me with a business card that Matt had left in one of his pockets. It was from a PR woman who had traveled with him, and she had written a proposition on the back of the card that wasn't exactly business-like. So... I confronted him with it. He admitted that he had cheated on me. No, never had any children. Something didn't work. But... having each other turned out to be enough. Well, I'm happy for you. Of course you can't hitch your cart to someone without taking a spin with them. Yeah. I wish I knew your secret. So, you obviously have a choice to make. Well, if your husband spends a night with another woman, I doubt that there's a choice. Do you still love him? If love had anything to do with it, he would have been alone in that hotel room. [CHUCKLES] Oh, Maddie. Love has everything to do with it. [ALL THREE EXCLAIMING] Look at this place! Okay, stay close. Need some tokens? Oh, it's you again. Yeah, it's me again. I don't exactly spend a lot of my time in video arcades. Really? We live in video arcades. Let's play. Two out of three. Loser buys a beer. All right. But I have to warn you, I always play to win. Yeah, I remember that about your kickball. Let's try to set a good example for the kids. Why? Hey, you don't still get violent when you lose, do you? I don't know. We'll see. Yeah. Let's. Go ahead. Take a shot. I'm bested. I can't beat that. Well, if you and your husband have been married for 49 years, he must be doing something right. What's your secret? I don't know. I have to think about that. Oh, he's, uh, funny. And he's more romantic now than when we were fist married. For my 60th birthday, he covered our entire bed with rose petals. Stripped four dozen roses clean. No!Yes! That's great! Matt... Matt was occasionally romantic. I mean, you know, he would send me French tulips and sometimes my favorite chocolate truffles. I remember once he... I came home from work and he'd installed a porch swing, which for Matt was amazing because he couldn't hammer a nail. And we'd, you know, get the girls in bed at night and then just sit out there, talk about our day, snuggle, watch the stars. That sounds romantic. Yeah. Yeah, we used to have some good times. Not even, you know, doing anything big, just hanging out, walking the dog after dinner. Sometimes we'd shoot pool, we had this... This old pool table that we kept down in the basement, and... I don't know, we just... We just stopped. What about you? Did you ever get married? Close. Came to my senses two weeks before the ceremony. Of course my mother nearly had to be hospitalized. What do I need a husband for? I have my own toolbox. Besides, I don't see much evidence that marriage works. Maybe you just haven't met the right guy yet. Must be because I'm too busy meeting the wrong ones. How do all the wrong guys get to date the right women? She hosed down beef in a packing plant to put herself through the university. She was something. Wouldn't marry me till she had that teaching degree in her hand. Ah, smartest thing I ever did. Marrying Ruth Marie Jensen. You two must have had quite a romance. Oh, don't we all? I mean, isn't that what gets us married in the first place? I guess you're right. The good, old days. No quarrels, no responsibilities, no problems whatsoever, before we lost the romance. Lost the romance. It's a bit of a cop-out, wouldn't you say? I mean, things get a little too familiar and maybe even a little dull. And then we think, "We've lost the romance." But do you wanna know something? Romance never goes away. We just stop being romantic. Did you marry her for love? Of course I did. Then fall in love with her again. Romance her, again. Give her a reason to fall in love with you again. That's the secret. Miss, I'll take six. Thanks. Oh, feels so good to work off these calories. You mean I can't just eat the pie and let my thighs inflate like tires? No. Aw! Young love. Gets better, you know. Even the sex. Really? Well, just because you grow older doesn't mean the feelings go away. Always wondered about that. But it's not the kind of thing you can ask your grandma. Definitely can't ask my mother. Oh, marriage, sex, such a mysterious subject. Ah, yes, young people think that old, married folks just have sex with illicit lovers. I know I did. What? Thought your parents didn't have sex? Had sex with an illicit lover. It was 35 years ago. But I thought you and Earl were still in love. We are. We were. We just worked things through. My husband was a firefighter. He was working long hours to make captain. So I started feeling a bit resentful, bit neglected. So one morning, I poured out my troubles to Mr. Frauer, of Biology 10. He'd always complimented me on things that Earl didn't seem to notice anymore, so... Before long, we started staying after school for, shall we say, play dates? What happened? He was a very decent man. Veryattractive, but I loved my husband. What I was missing, I now realize, was the romance that I'd once had with Earl. So, I decided to confess. I know that sounds cruel and maybe I was just feeling guilty. But I didn't know what else to do, so... He never said a word. He just got up, he walked into the garage. He didn't speak to me again for three days. Later on, he told me that he cried like a baby. And then on the fourth day, he showed me how to save the marriage. How? The only way you can if you're gonna love somebody for a lifetime. By forgiveness. He asked me for forgiveness. He asked me to forgive him. Even though I was the one who'd done something wrong. He said that he knew that his own behavior had a lot to do with it and he was sorry for taking our marriage for granted. So you just started over? Well, we began again. I mean, why not? Why can't you begin again with the person you love the most? Come on. Can't quit now. How'd you get so many baseball cards? My Dad. He gives them to me for taking piano lessons. I don't really like it, but we made a deal that if I practice for half an hour, then he goes and buys me a pack of baseball cards. You must know a lot of songs by now. Yup. Why isn't your mom at the airport? She doesn't live with us. I think my parents are gonna get a divorce. I heard my mom on the phone, crying. She said she was mad about my Dad cheating on something. She said he was a phliant... ...philanta... phliantropris. What's that? Ellie, what's a philantropist? Philanthropist? A philanthropist is someone who does nice things for other people. They give away money and stuff. Why would my mom be mad about that? MADDIE: That's amazing. And that's how I met Earl. Oh, that's amazing, that's a great story. [COUGHS] Ruth?Excuse me. You okay? Just a little nauseated. Well, let's sit down. No, no, really, I'll be fine, I just need a moment. Are you sure? Really, I'm fine. I just... Ruth? Ruth! Ruth? Ruth? Help me, somebody, please help me. Help me here! Ruth? Come on, you guys. They'll never know we're gone. Oh! [LAUGHING] ELLIE: Come on, let's go. Why haven't you married again? I'm waiting for the woman I'm supposed to ask. What do you mean, "supposed to"? I know it's old-fashioned, but I really believe it that there's someone that you're meant to be with. If that's true, I'm running out of patience. Hey, give me a chance. Huh? You got 10,000 points, I got 10 points, give me a chance, you're killing me. Let's check on the kids. I'll buy you a beer. Oh, no, the kids. CRAIG: Jason? Maddie is going to kill me. Are you a relative? No, we just met. I'm a friend. We're trying to page her husband. Do you know where he is? I don't, I'm sorry. [GASPS] Sweetheart. I'm right here! I'm right here with you, everything is gonna be all right. [MELLOW MUSIC PLAYING] Maddie? I was in a restaurant. Ruth sat down next to me. We ate some pie. I was in the bar. Earl sat down next to me, we drank a beer. Ruth talked about their marriage. Earl did too. She had an affair. They stayed together. She called it their second marriage. He even proposed again. Really? He drove his fire truck over to her school, climbed a ladder up to her classroom and told her his heart was still on fire. [CHOIR SINGING "JOY TO THE WORLD"] ♪ And ever o'er Nice story. ♪ The blessed angels sing ♪ Joy to the world The Lord is come! ♪ Let earth receive her King ♪ Let every heart Prepare Him room Good luck with your new job, Matt. ♪ And heaven and nature sing And heaven and nature sing ♪ And heaven, and heaven And nature sing ♪ Joy to the world The Savior reigns! ♪ Let men their songs employ ♪ While fields and floods Rocks, hills and plains ♪ Repeat the sounding joy Repeat the sounding joy ♪ Repeat, repeat The sounding joy MAN: Get out of here! Go on! Shoo! Shoo! ♪ He rules the world With truth and grace ♪ And makes the nations prove ♪ The glories of His righteousness Kirby! Come on! ♪ And wonders Wonders of His love ♪ KATHERINE: Try that shop over there. I'll look over here. Katherine, come here. Careful, the bow. Okay. You know what, there's a second floor, we'll look there, come on. Don't worry, we'll find them. I am worried. Because if they find my sister before we find them, Aunt Katherine is looking at about ten years of supervised visitation. Ruth. What happened? Now, Earl, don't make a fuss, I feel fine. I just got a little dizzy, that's all. You sure?Positive. Is she telling the truth? Is she gonna be okay? Her blood pressure is still a little high, but with some rest, she's gonna be just fine. Thank you. You know, Ruthie, you scared the daylights out of me. I picked up that courtesy phone, and they said there had been an incident. I thought for sure that it was bad. That maybe I'd lost you. Oh, now, Earl, aren't you being just a tad over-dramatic? It was nothing. No, Ruthie. It was something. You think just for a moment that you actually might lose the best part of you. And that brief moment, as brief as it may be, you find yourself asking, "How will I ever go on "without her?" [SOFTLY] Oh... Hi. They said you were feeling better, so I brought the roses that Earl got for you. Oh! Oh, they're so beautiful. Oh, thank you. You see? That's what I love about my husband. Even though we're stranded in an airport, he still thinks he has to court me. Is it true that you scaled a wall to propose to her again? Uhuh. You two are something. Well, I'm glad you're feeling better. Thanks. And I want to thank you both for trying to help Matt and me. Oh, you just missed Matt. He dropped in to check on Ruth. Really? You know what your husband loves about you? The way you hold his hand when the lights go down at the movies. He said that? Right after he went on about how you always leave a kiss of lipstick on a tissue in his luggage. If I remember correctly, he saved 237. Thank you. He saved them? In a drawer at his office. You didn't know that? He knew the exact number? He counted them the morning after you asked him to leave. Do you think we're gonna have to move? Move? What are you talking about? When Mom and Dad get a divorce. Who said Mom and Dad were getting divorced? Ellie, Dad doesn't live in our house anymore. I'm not stupid. Yeah, well, no one said they're getting divorced. [SARCASTICALLY] Yeah, right! When my friend, Erin's dad moved out, her parents got a divorce. So our parents probably will too. I don't see why Mom has to be so mad at Dad. Yeah, well, it's not Mom's fault if they do get divorced. All Dad did was cheat on something. So what? Who said he had to be perfect? No one said you had to be perfect, Kirby. Oh. Here, let me help you. Oh, thank you. Thanks. This purse contains the story of my life. Hm! Efficient packer. I think I'd need a trunk. Is that Hawaii? Yes. My husband and I dreamed to go on there. We were saving. And look at you in that bikini, you look great. Well, 1982 BC. Before children. May I? Please. I wish I had more pictures of my family. Well, proves you had one, right? I'm Maddie. Gwen. Hi. My husband and our son, Deshawn, six now. Handsome family. Thank you. Do you and your husband get any time to yourselves now? He died three years ago. Shot breaking up a fight. He was a cop. Oh, I'm so sorry. We're doing okay, Deshawn and I. I take classes at the university during the day. And I work out here at night. My mother looks after my son. That must be hard. Yeah. But I just thank the good Lord that our last words were kind. We'd been fighting over something the night before. But my husband, Philip, had a house rule. No leaving without some loving. So the next morning, he snuck up behind me in the kitchen and kissed me. 'Cause you just never know. WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] Madeline Parker, please meet your party at the Concourse Restaurant, level two. It's my sister, finally. Madeline Parker, please meet your party at the Concourse Restaurant, level two. Have a great holiday, Gwen. You too. And don't forget to take lots of pictures. Girls!Jason. KATHERINE: What are you doing up there? You didn't even notice we were gone. How did you get up there? The escalator. Well, take the escalator back down, please. Fine. Did we notice they were gone? Who? The kids. Oh, yeah, of course we noticed, I mean... That's why we came running out here. Yeah. They look like they're having fun. Oh, yeah. So was I. Maddie Parker? Yes.This way, please. [ROMANTIC PIANO MUSIC PLAYING] I don't understand. This is your table. Oh... Uh... Remember the last time we were stuck in this airport? Grad school, spring break, our first trip together. Our plane was delayed almost four hours, but it didn't matter, because I was exactly where I wanted to be. What are you doing? Wooing you. Wooing me? I'm a little out of practice, but I used to be pretty good at it. Give me a chance, Maddie. I better find Katherine and the girls. I'm sure Aunt Katherine's got everything under control. Come on. Just for a minute. Okay. One for you. One for you. One for me. One for you. Give me something good this time. You keep winning. KIRBY: Tell me about it! Hey, where's your ring? Oh, I took it off this morning. I'm surprised to see you're still wearing yours. Still didn't want to take it off. What did I do wrong? You? Nothing. I'm the one who messed things up. [SIGHS] I'm sure there's enough blame to go around. Do you remember the good times or has it turned into one big regret? You are the only man I ever wanted to marry. I don't regret following my heart. I'm sorry that somewhere along the way, that young couple got lost, Maddie. Yeah, somewhere between jobs and kids and a million errands that had to be run. On my to-do list, not much time for us. Remember... when we first moved into the house, I installed that dimmer so that we would always feel like we were dining by candlelight? When was the last time I turned that thing on? I don't know. I wouldn't mind a little ambiance with my peanut butter and pizza. Who were we before we were Mom and Dad? We were people who liked to dance. [PLAYING JAZZ MUSIC] I need some air. [SNORING LOUDLY] WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] Attention, passengers. The plows have cleared the runways and we hope to resume service shortly. Please check your airlines for revised schedules. Maddie, wait. [MELLOW MUSIC PLAYING] Maddie? Snow is so beautiful, isn't it? Yeah, sure is. What a mess it's made of our day. It's almost 10:30. You should have been in Florida hours ago. We should be in Chicago. They said, "A chance of snow." "A chance"? I don't know about you, but I was kind of nervous back there. I mean, it felt like we were a couple of kids, almost like our first date. Big Ten Hockey Championship. Yeah. You asked me to meet you outside the locker room afterwards, remember? Your team had just won, people were going crazy dancing in the streets. There were so many girls running after you. I only had eyes for one of them. [PEOPLE CHATTERING] I'm sorry, I'm usually the life of the party. You said you painted houses. I do. You should see my window trims. But this is so professional. You could sell work like this. Yeah, I do on occasion. But for now, with a boy who needs books and computer games and tuition, I've gotta concentrate on Johnson Interior and Exterior House Painting. "Quality work at reasonable prices." [MELLOW MUSIC PLAYING] Would you sign it for me? Be happy to. Thanks for making me look so good. Oh, yeah, well, it was awfully easy. The girls are practically teenagers, which can only help. I mean, they're not gonna need constant attention, we can find time for us again. [ROMANTIC MUSIC PLAYING] What do you say, we take off somewhere in a couple of weeks, just you and me, hm? How about Hawaii? We haven't been back since our honeymoon. How about it? You and me on a beach somewhere. I bet you still got a string bikini tucked away in a drawer. I don't think that's gonna work for me. How come? For one thing, the suit won't fit. Come on, what are you talking about? You haven't gained five pounds in 15 years. Except when I was pregnant. You're not... I am. Three months. MERILEE: [OVER PHONE] Maddie, what's the matter? Nothing. It's Matt, isn't it? Yes. I'm gonna tell you a little secret that you're not gonna find in any of my damn guide books. [LAUGHING] A Happy Homemaker. Oh, what a joke! Most nights I'm sitting here looking at the television and grabbing a book and climbing into my empty four-poster. Maddie, it's been almost 25 years since your father left. I was too proud and too stubborn to go and try and stop him. You still miss Dad? That's right. My first book was selling better that the Bible and that was the proof, right? That I was the perfect mother, the perfect wife, and the perfect fool. Then, a little while later, he fell in love with someone. Married 23 years this summer, Dad and Audrey. Yup. You might wanna add "happily married." Mom, I always thought it would be the same for me and Matt. I didn't really imagine that marriage would be this hard. Well, you see, that's where so many of us get screwed up. We exchange rings, we make a few promises, and then we expect to spend the next 50 years with our heads in the clouds. Well, that's bull! We work hard at our careers. We work hard at keeping our figures and we read all the books we can about raising our children. But work at marriage, are you kidding? Nobody works at romance. Trust me, Maddie, true romance is holding the wrinkled, old hand of the person that you've been clinging to for 50 years. Not spritz of perfume and candlelight and under the covers with number 14. Fourteen? It's just a figure of speech, Maddie, not a confession. Well, I haven't exactly been cloistered all these years, but, you know, I've never met a man that I wanted to be married to the way I did your father. Why are you telling me all this? Maddie, when does Matt's plane leave? Uh... About ten minutes. That's why. Sweetheart, if Matt walks through that gate, he's gone. And you'll have no one to blame but yourself. But if you don't love him, well... Then just go to your gate and flip through a magazine and, you know, relax. I'm sorry I didn't read your last three books, Mom, because you know what? You have some pretty good advice. Um... I'm gonna run now. And I'll call you. Bye bye. WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] Attention passengers, this is the final boarding call... Excuse me. I need to talk to someone on the plane. Oh, I'm sorry, the plane just pulled out. Are you sure? Yes, about five minutes ago. Thank you. REBECCA: [ON TV] Good news out there, the storm that we've been watching throughout the last 12 hours is finally starting to taper off. That's great news, especially for a lot of people traveling. In fact we have received word at the Minneapolis St. Paul International Airport that runways are now open so they're going to try to get some of the flights going. A lot of people have been stranded there and I know this is good news, that you can get to your loved ones for Christmas. And for the kids out there still watching TV, the best part. It looks like Santa Claus will be able to make it to the Twin Cities. So your wish will come true. [MELLOW MUSIC PLAYING] My bag. Excuse me. Oh, God! Hey! I'm sorry, I was just checking. I lost my purse. Excuse me. Gwen! Gwen! I left my bag in the phone booth, my photo album was in it. Okay, just try to stay calm, what else was in your bag? Well, I've got the plane tickets in my pocket, but everything else, my wallet, my keys, my ring. Your ring? Oh, that doesn't matter. The most important thing is that photo album. My daughter worked so hard on it. Jim, this is Gwen. Do you copy? JIM: I copy. GWEN: We're looking for a photo album and a purse last seen on the red concourse. [UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING] GWEN: Maddie. I'm sorry. This is all we could find. Looks good, and here you go. WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] MSP Flight 523 will be boarding in five minutes. That's MSP Flight 523, will be boarding in five minutes. Did they find it? Mm-mm. No. I'm sorry I never thanked you for the present. Took a lot of work to organize all those photos and you did a beautiful job. I was meant to do it myself, but I never took the time. You made me think about all the wonderful times that this family's had. Do you think they'll ever find it? I wish they would, Ellie, but I... I'm afraid the album's gone. We won't be taking any more family photos, will we, Mom? Honey, no matter what happens between your father and me, we'll always be a family. It won't be the same. Not if we're never in the same pictures. [MELANCHOLY MUSIC PLAYING] WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] Ladies and gentlemen, MSP Flight 523 is now boarding. It's about time. Who would have thought I'd run into this goofy kid I knew in grade school. Now he's a single dad who paints sheet rock for a living. And all of a sudden, I'm writing "lasagna at Craig's" in my Filofax with a happy face next to it. You drew a happy face? Yeah. Can you believe it? This may be a good thing for you, you know. Nice guy, more concerned about being a good father than building his portfolio. You think? Absolutely. Well, I'm just sorry about you and Matt. Really thought things would turn out differently. [SIGHS] It's over. I can't believe you told him about the baby and he still got on that plane. I didn't really give him a chance. Don't you worry, Maddie. I'm gonna be there every step of the way. I'll go to those breathing classes with you, hold your hand in the delivery room. I promise. I'll even learn how to change a diaper or two. We'll get through this together, okay? WOMAN: [OVER PA SYSTEM] Will Madeline Parker please come to the lost and found? Madeline Parker, please come to the lost and found? Board without me. You're gonna miss the plane. Katherine, I need those pictures. Mom, Mom, I wanna go with you. Go with Aunt Kat, I'll be right back. Come on, come on. It's okay. You paged for Parker-Hill... Maddie.Gwen! You were in luck. You found it. We found it in a recycle bin. Thank you. I hope you're not as sentimental about your purse. That's gone. You know what I wish? I wish we'd taken more photographs. MATT: Yeah. Me too. What are you doing here? You're supposed to be on a plane. I realized that... I don't wanna go anywhere. For Christmas? For good. What about your new job? I always liked my old one. What's this? Photo album. I thought we could start a new one. You know I'm a fool for baby pictures. Maddie, your purse! Oh, my bag! Why don't you check and see if everything's in there? Well, they took my wallet. Oh, I'm sorry. My keys are here, my date book, glasses... [SIGHS] And my ring. I put this ring on your hand 14 years ago. Nothing would make me happier than to have that honor again. 'Cause, Maddie, this man's heart is still on fire. Yes. [CLEARS THROAT] Our plane leaves in about five minutes. Uh, there has been a change in plans. KIRBY: Dad! Ellie, hold this for me, will you, honey? We're gonna start a new one. Let's go home. Let's go home! Come on! Ah! We'll sing Christmas songs. KIRBY: Hey, Dad, can we start a fire? MATT: Sure we can. So, we'll drink some eggnog? KIRBY: I can't wait for Santa Claus. ELLIE: What about grandma? MADDIE: We'll call her from home. She can send us the leftovers. KIRBY: Does this mean we won't have to stencil angels on toilet paper? MADDIE: What are you talking about? ELLIE: I hope Grandma's not mad. MADDIE: Something tells me she won't mind. It's going to be Christmas as usual. [MATT LAUGHS] [CHOIR SINGING JOY TO THE WORLD] ♪ And wonders of His love And wonders of His love ♪ And wonders Wonders of His love ♪ [UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING]