Transcript for Crossing the American Crises: From Collapse to Action (2011) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (upbeat pop music) - [Newsman] These are your wake up call news headlines for Monday, September 15, 2008. The Wall Street Journal reports this morning that the American financial system has been quote, "Shaken to its core," close quote. - [Newsman] You were down outside Lehman's last night. - [Newswoman] Right now breaking news here. Stocks all around the world are tanking because of the crisis on Wall Street. - [Newsman] On the Dow Jones Industrial. - [Newsman] Quote, "Was the day unlike anything "Wall Street had ever seen," close quote. (dramatic music) (upbeat Celtic music) - [Man] It's 10:30 at night. We're heading for Ohio, about 60 miles outside of Cleveland. And then to Detroit for this evening. - [Sinsi] Back in the '40s and the '50s there were the unions that made factory jobs an avenue to the middle class. - We're like the most segregated city, the highest crime rate. Detroit is what it is because of industry and you know, the Industrial Revolution. And just like capitalism, trouble with democracy, and like, how all those failed. And this is what we have left of it. (saxophone music) ♪ Somewhere down the line ♪ Lies my destination ♪ Somewhere down the line ♪ Need no reservation ♪ Somewhere down the line ♪ Got no hesitation ♪ Somewhere, somewhere down the line - [Man] These are all Indian people that live here. - [Woman] This is the middle of a reservation. You can drive across a reservation within half an hour. - [Interviewer] Wow. - We're seeing that there's a segment of our society that feel that we're left out, neglected, abused. Rights are violated. Gettin' depression down here so bad that people wanna just give up, you know. Why go on? You know, it's a terrible situation. - [Newsman] Coming up in the next half hour on news radio 780, the administration and Congress continue to work on details of a $700 billion dollar Wall Street bailout plan. - [Newsman] The White House is calling on Congress to pass the rescue plan lickety-split. ♪ Somewhere, somewhere down the line - I think the government bailing out them banks is bullshit. Why should guys that work hard for a living for a paycheck, living week to week, bail out the big companies? They overextended. Government don't bail me out when I overextend my budget from week to week, so why should they bail out the people that got the money to begin with, so that's the way I feel about it. But gettin' them to change, you might as well get rid of every politician in Washington. (speaking in foreign language) - Part-time as security guard. (speaking in foreign language) - [Newsman] On the campaign trail yesterday, the economy front and center. Here's Barack Obama. - [Barack] Era of greed and irresponsibility on Wall Street and in Washington has led us to a perilous moment. They said they wanted to let the market run free, but instead they let it run wild. - [Newswoman] Investors anxiously watching what's going on in Washington. Discussions to resume in a few hours when a financial bailout package to buy up bank's bad debt and unfreeze the credit market. Democratic Congressman Barney Frank thinks a measure could be approved sometime tomorrow. - The people that they should really be worried about are the ones that are losing their homes because the property value has gone down, and my son is one of 'em. And so, you know, it's really a shame that they don't focus their attention on those people rather than the big interest, big banks and stuff, and bailing them out. Let the banks crash. - [Woman] Where our economy is bailing out by natural institutions, they still are trying to lock down low income communities of color in contrastic prison cells. We demand freedom to breathe. - You know, we live in East Oakland, you know, the community, right now my mortgages and electric bills, and it really is a strain on everybody and their families. - The middle class and the poor people aren't really receiving any benefits. ♪ Oh, baby no ♪ Baby no - [Newsman] This is free speech radio news. It's Monday, September 29, 2008. The House of Representatives killed a massive Wall Street compromise bailout, sending shock waves through the market as it plunged more than 60 points in a matter of minutes. - [Newsman] Breaking news. Look at this, 777 point drop. 777.68. That's the largest single day point drop ever in US history. - This defeat in the House of Representatives today of this so-called bailout package was the shot heard round the world. - So we had a big victory in that this building had passed, but now we have to be constantly vigilant because they're gonna rework it, create another version of this and make some compromises instead of doing a whole different approach. Say no, don't bail them out. Bail out the asset base that's underneath all of this speculative stuff and do trickle up instead of trickle down. - And take two for the bailout bill in the House of Representatives. It gets to the bailout, but will the financial bleeding stop? The ink still is drying on the bailout package signed into law by the president this hour. Despite the bailout, there's still plenty of reason for Americans to be very jittery about the overall US economy. They used to say in the old days when America sneezed, the rest of the world had pneumonia. Is that still a true adage? - It's a true adage and unfortunately the patient is on life support. - When we've lost 750,000 jobs, we're heading into the holiday shopping season, and Americans are not really in a shopping mood right now. - What's happening here is rippling across oceans with markets in Europe and Asia hit very, very hard. There's another horrible day on Wall Street. The economy set for center stage tonight as well in a one-of-its-kind debate. Barack Obama and John McCain are getting ready to face each other and voters together for the first time. - I think everybody knows now, we are in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. - I think it'll be all right once Obama get in office. I think Obama's gonna make president, but of course if Obama don't make president, and Cain get in there, oh man, strap your boots on and get your helmet on. You know what I'm sayin'? Because it's gonna get worse. - [Newsman] On KNX 1070 news radio. Here's Bob McCormick. - [Bob] Good morning. It may be hard to believe that it was one year ago today when the Dow and the S&P 500 hit their all time highs. The Dow was over 14,000. S&P 500 was at 1575. And we're over 35% below that level now. And now we got General Motors below six bucks, selling at levels not seen since 1951. - We're just headed east outside of LA. We're headed out towards, Arizona's our next stop and then into Flagstaff. We're gonna see how the economic crisis is affecting people and how it's already affecting folks on the old Route 66. Obviously that's going downhill and been in a depression for years and years, ever since the major interstate highways were built. So we want to see the direct effects on the local community and what can happen when jobs and the economy and transportation is pulled out. - I don't use my swamp cooler. I try not to use my heater. I try to heat only with my pilot light. I try to cook less. We live in public housing. If we didn't have that, I don't know how. I mean, we'd still make it, but it'd be a lot higher. And it's not something that goes away in a month or six months or a year. This is something that's going to be affecting our lives for a long time to come and even our children's lives. I can't say it's hopeless, but it's gonna take a lot of major decisions. - [Interviewer] And how's the economy out here? How are people doing? - It's absolutely dead. There's no work out here. I mean, people out here are barely getting by. Barely. And it's creating a lot of crime out here. Lot of flunkies, you know. People out scrapping, stealing metal. Nobody wants to trust nobody. It's just, it's bad here. - [Interviewer] Wow. - You know, and actually my first job ever was in this restaurant, back in, let me see, my dad was still alive, so it was probably '85 or '86. I was 13, 12, 13 years old. I worked in here and it was called the Sidewinder Cafe. But since then this place has really just, it's kind of dried up. - [Interviewer] Wow. (wind blowing) - I spent 26 years in the military. Loved it, I believed in my country. I still believe in the country, the flag, but I don't believe in the people that run it. They're all just a bunch of, just you know, the rise and fall of the Roman Empire all over. Only had a couple hundred years. It's not 2500. You know. There's beautiful people in this country, but I'm just amazed at these college-educated idiots. I was gonna write President Bush and ask him for about $80,000 to by a house. What the hell, he's bailing out all these billionaires. (train clanking) (rockabilly music) - The store is in a perfect area because we have the Europeans and Asians coming to the Grand Canyon and they stop here on Route 66. As far as personally, we've taken a hit, my husband and I in the stock markets, so we're gonna keep workin'. We don't have a choice. We're not real happy with the bailout. Not happy at all with that. We think this country should go ahead and have their depression or whatever you want to call it. Everyone needs to suffer. There's too many decades of adults who have never suffered and they're spoiled. ♪ And the rhythm of the rail is all they feel ♪ Good mornin' America how are you ♪ Don't you know me ♪ I'm your native son - Well, I'm in the United States here and we don't have a human-centered culture here. We've got a commerce-centered culture which is not sustainable. Maybe this whole country's on a drunk. And the consequence is that we're all starting to wake up. We say in Spanish (speaking in foreign language). There's no bad from which good doesn't have. And if our economy tanks, we may turn around and discover the value of human relationships. (violin music) - [Newsman] Retail sales in September somewhere south of awful. The biggest plunge in two years, falling 1.7%. That's more than double what had been expected. Auto sales, what there were of them, the big problem. President Bush on the bank bailouts, the government is a passive investor. Equity in banks is designed to support free enterprise, he says, not replace it. Confidence in cash the recipe, which also calls for time and patience. - It's gettin' pretty bad out here, you know, when it was $5 a gallon. I was averaging about a dollar a mile. It's just unreal. My fuel bill's probably about 60 grand a year. And I'm an owner/operator. The way they got it set up for us, I basically, I run around with no health insurance, no benefits, and for like the last, ever since the fuel went through the roof, I haven't even paid my social security, so basically don't have no retirement. And I'm going from anywhere from 30 to 90 days at a time and when I do go home, I may be home 10 days, 12 days a year with my family. Got a wife and three kids. It's just crazy. ♪ I know you are home ♪ Without my poor pockets ♪ Of silver and gold - Well, just like when I first started farming, there were several grain elevators scattered around the country. Now we're down to one or two that you can take your grain to. And beef packers, there used to be a lot of beef packers in the mention. Now we're down to four or five. And one company is gettin' ready to buy out two more, so that means we're gettin' down to three or four. When you have a big company that manufactures the majority of the fertilizer in the world, they can tell you what they'll sell it for and they don't have any competition to make 'em be honest. And it looks like that's what's happened with maybe to an extent oil, too. You get down to four or five companies that are the only people you can buy from, well, they can, you lost your competition. And you know, the competition is what keeps other people honest or keeps their prices in line. (dogs barking) - [Newswoman] Here in New York hundreds of people rallied across from the New York Stock Exchange Thursday against the Wall Street bailout, amid signs reading jail time for corporate crime. Independent presidential candidate and long-time consumer advocate Ralph Nader singled out New York stock exchange CEO Duncan Niederauer. - [Man] And so I say that Wall Street is the wall that locks the American people out of their own government. It's the wall that locks the American people from the wealth they own, but do not control. - [Man] Water rose 20 feet here. So pretty much all of these homes were completely under water. - [Man] Yeah. - We lived here prior to Katrina 38 years. Two year after Katrina, we're still living in a FEMA trailer at the lot and we're not going anywhere. - [Interviewer] The economy now, the bailout, any thoughts? - Well, it's ironic that it only took them two weeks to issue a $700 billion dollar check. It took them three years after Katrina, and this is what you see. That was Miss Jackson's driveway. That was Miss Broomfield's driveway. That was Mr. Legger's driveway. That was Miss Gloria's driveway. So basically every house, every family that's gone actually was a family that should be here now. And if they would've been given the money in two weeks like they did in Congress, the way they did in Wall Street, then every last one of these families would've rebuilt their houses. Then this whole gulf coast area would've been rebuilt because everybody in the gulf coast is basically like the people down here. Family first. - No, you know why we came here to be honest with ya? Is we thought there was gonna be a lot of work. And then the economy here, when you work for 'em, they only want like, what, six, seven dollars an hour. You can't live off that. That's why we're homeless. We are, we're homeless. You know, you're not gonna get an apartment here makin' six, seven dollars an hour. - [Charlotte] They don't even have a shelter. - [Interviewer] There's no shelter whatsoever? - No. - [Billy] No shelter, no. - We can go eat at a couple places, but there's not a shelter. - No food, no nothin'. They need to bring the jobs back, is what they need to do. I mean, I'll go to everybody every morning. Nothing, nothing. - We're not dumb or bums or anything. We just, there's nothin' to do. Can't work anywhere. There's no work. That's the problem. - We gotta ask people for money just to get somethin' to eat. (laughing) That's true. I'm gonna ask you too when you leave. (laughing) - [Charlotte] People are out for the big dollars, just like here in Biloxi and Mississippi. They're after, the casinos are after the tourists and the money. So the rest of the people have to suffer because the casinos want the money. That's a lot of it. - [Michael] No, it's not just states, the whole country. - [Charlotte] Well, yeah, not just here. - [Michael] You know what I mean? - [Charlotte] Everywhere else, too, not just here. There's other people that suffer. It's not just here. - It's changed minds and it has changed hearts. - Well, the economic crisis has really affected us more than anyone else. When the rest of the country, the rest of the population has a cold, we have pneumonia. - In 2008, and people who had no rent ordered in 1860. 148 years ago. Gave to the poor two weeks from Tuesday. (audience applause) Here we stand. Here we stand. - We should be cutting corporate tax for every business in America. - [Newswoman] Says Obama. - More tax cuts for jobs outsourcing. That's what Senator McCain proposed as his answer to outsourcing. He says that's, quote, "Simple fundamental economics." I say let's end tax cuts for companies that ship jobs overseas. Give them to companies that are investing right here in Indiana, right here in the United States of America. - Well this is not the land of milk and honey anymore. It's just not. This country will never be what it once was again. Just on television they said there's a 100,000 people out of work in the state of South Carolina alone. A 100,000 people. Now that's a lot of people. And I heard last night in North Carolina they said there was 80,000, 80,000 people out of work up there that just in a week or so. So, I mean, that's a lot of people out of work. You get 180,000 people just across the line out of work, hey, it's serious. The economy is in serious shape. Really is. - The economy right now is affecting everybody. Sales are down, people don't have the money, they're afraid to spend. They're having a hard time like payin' for their groceries and stuff like that. They can't afford to retire. It's just like they're talking on the news. - [Interviewer] How did we get to this point? What's the problem? Who's to blame? - The government. Our people, our senators, our president, and everybody up, up in Washington right now. It's all about the money and the big people that's got all of the money. They say Obama says over $250,000. Do you make that over a year? Okay. No. Do you know very many people who do? - [Interviewer] No. - No, you do not. No, it's all about the money. It's the money. They don't care nothin' about the working class people. That's what's wrong with our economy. Get rid of 'em up there and put somebody in that's like we are that's used to workin' for therself. - I mean, just clean house. I'd fire every one of 'em. - Get rid of every one of them. Start with a new president, vice president, and the whole full house, Congress. I mean, both sides, Republican and Democrat. - Get rid of all these guys, that a, lobbyists. Just get rid of every one of 'em. And let the government run this country for the people. And that's how I feel about it and right now it's not being run by the people. It's been run by the lobbyists, mainly. And by the rich people. (upbeat country music) - Oh, I didn't hear you. It's time to what? - [Crowd] Vote. - Together. It's time to what? - [Crowd] Vote! - Come on, one more time. It's time to what? - [Crowd] Vote! - All right, so get ready. - We're organizing immigrants and people of color to really come out and vote in the elections tomorrow, Tuesday, November 4th. (speaking in foreign language) - It is finally election day. Decision time for voters, and a defining moment in our nation's history as America elects either the first African American president, or in fact the first female vice president. - Oh, I hope, what I'm hoping happens. (laughing) - [Interviewer] This is your first time voting? - [Ana] Yes, my first time. I was so excited and it went well. I'm really happy I did it. - [Interviewer] Are there a lot of people that this is their first time voting, you think? - [Ana] I think so, I think so. - [Newswoman] Shifting demographics are part of the story, and I think also the economy. We've talked, I mean, the economy has played such the crisis, has trumped racial fears, has moved people to think in new ways which we need to build on. - When you have a country in which you have 46 million people without healthcare, you have people who work and can't afford shelter, you have people who work hard and their children still have challenges in the school system. It means a country that's not on the right track. And I think Barack Obama has connected with the community and says that bigger things that we have to make investments in. And I see that as happening at our local level and throughout the country. - And CNN can now project that Barack Obama, 47 years old, will become the president-elect of the United States. (crowd cheering) - This is our chance to answer that call. This is our moment. This is our time. To put our people back to work and open doors of opportunity for our kids. To restore prosperity and promote the cause of peace. To reclaim the American dream and reaffirm that fundamental truth that out of many we are one. That while we breathe we hope. And where we are met with cynicism and doubt and those who tell us that we can't, we will respond with that timeless creed that sums up the spirit of a people. Yes we can. Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. (crowd cheering) (acoustic guitar music) - [Woman] The Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the jobless rate rose half a percentage point in February, translating into more than 650,000 lost jobs. - [Woman] Have you ever seen anything like this before? When was the last time that the economy lost more than 600,000 jobs each month for this many months in a row? - [Man] The answer to that is never. We've never had four straight months of job loss in the excess of 600,000. (Spanish acoustic guitar music) - [Man] We're at the bottom. But from the standpoint of the population, the bottom is going to go on for a long time. (Spanish acoustic guitar music) While the public is way ahead of the political system, the public certainly wanted a Rooseveltian moment. The Congress, the Washington press corps, wanted a return to their familiar patterns of activity. - I actually went on about 109 interviews before I decided to just go back to school. It's just been a hard row to hoe and now I work at Staples, so, making like less than I've made since I was 16. So it's very difficult. - When I got in the military, I realized like after the fact, they always deal with pay issues themselves. So going into the economic crisis, it just got worse so, where I'm expecting money. You know, usually it take like eight weeks, maybe 12 weeks to process. I went through all last semester and my money never came. - My friends and family aren't doing too good. Yeah, like in my family, my father doing pretty good, my mother is, they had jobs for like a long time. But my cousins, they don't have jobs and you know, they not doin' a whole lot of good things right now. They kind of like just got out of jail and stuff like that. Yeah, so it is affecting them a whole lot. And I think this is, you know, my opinion this is Bush's fault. You know, George Bush. Because he set up the conditions that kind of led to it. - What gets me is, what gets me is, they say that the economy is moving up and we can't see it. We don't see it. But I guess the government, they see it, because they say the economy's moving up and it's doing better. But we are here struggling and we see what really going on. The economy's not goin' nowhere. We see more homeless people every day. We got family members that losin' their jobs left and right. - [Interviewer] So how many hours a day are you all working then? - What you bringin' in? - I work 40 and I work five here, so I work 40 and 20 here, I'm working 60 hours a week. - [Interviewer] Wow. That's a lot of hours. - That's a lot of hours, yeah. 60 hours a week. - [Interviewer] And were you doing the same time before the crisis? Were you-- - No. No, before that I only had one job and I was okay. - [Interviewer] Right. - But when days starts goin' bad, then I had to get a part-time job in order to survive. I was rentin' and we had let go of the place. I'm stayin' right now with my mom to get things right, to get it goin'. - Things are pretty tricky in the United States right now. I think people were really hopeful about a potential change, and while people keep hoping, the Obama administration keeps changing. And so we see the plans that they got so many people excited about and there was a massive mobilization of grass roots folks to put Obama into power and a real challenge for people to how to engage with this, how to engage with the fact that people were actually mobilizing for the first time for hope that there was going to be a presidential candidate that would actually fulfill maybe some of the promises, represent some of the interest of poor folks and people of color. And unfortunately after a year, it's so clear to say that it's the same old. (wind blowing) - See this? This is my blanket. My other extra jacket in case this one gets messed up, and another pair of pants. And that's my situation. And I lost my job in May of 2008 and I haven't been able to get one. I started working at this place about two weeks ago. They're not gonna pay me for three weeks. That's the way you start off and then they pay you once when. - [Interviewer] Wow, wow. - [John] It's garbage. - [Interviewer] What were you doing before? - I was a printer and a delivery man. Company went under. I did the same thing, I ran the same press for 30 years and I never got into the computers, you know, so that's where everything went, so that's why I'm like, plus I didn't get a high school diploma. I started on as a teenager. Now I'll be 51 in April and I'm out in the street. - Luckily in the beginning I got stable jobs for 22 years, I mean, through all that time, since 1984 to 2006, so those are the 22 years of employment. So I was quite lucky. Never felt the price as women do. Then my clothes get canceled, (mumbles). And me looking for work for some time and I have no choice but go on, search employ, search employ. Doing a lot of recycling and so on. It's been working. - Times are tough. If, there's right next door one of our partners in Monte Health Center community center gives out free food once a month, and there's a line that starts on that side of the block and goes all the way down the other side of the block. It's like third Friday of the month, and it's every month the line gets longer. More and more people are just struggling to be able to put food on the table. So it's really tough, economic times. There's a big need for jobs, there's a big need for healthcare, for housing. So we're just trying to figure out ways that we can get organized so that we can demand changes to policies and to make sure that our taxpayer money is going towards people's needs, our needs, and not towards the super wealthy that have been sucking it out of us. (speaking in foreign language) - We have a much higher unemployment rate now than we did when Lehman Brothers collapsed. When you add in underemployment, it gets to about 18% of workers in the United States. (speaking in foreign language) - Well, I was laid off two years ago. I haven't been able to find a job. I moved to Baltimore to take a job. The company went under. So I've been living on charity and unemployment off and on for two years. - [Interviewer] Wow. - And I hope the Senate patches the, extends unemployment. Otherwise I'm really screwed. Other than that, I'm great. (laughing) - [Interviewer] A couple of years ago, would you have imagined? - No, not in my entire life would I have imagined. A couple years ago I was making $150,000 a year living on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and everything was wonderful. - As far as the actual crisis, the financial crisis of manufactured event in the sense that back in the 1930s when there was a genuine, worldwide economic depression, laws were passed to prevent certain types of speculation, to put restrictions on banks, restrictions on finance, so transactions, supervision of stock exchanges, such that it would protect the public. Now from my awareness, from Reagan on and probably from earlier administrations, there'd been a concentrated effort on the part of certain Republicans to remove these restrictions, to get rid of regulation, to allow banks and financial institutions to do certain things. To allow commercial banks to invest, to allow the circumventing of these restrictions. - But in 2008, the crisis hit all sectors. And all of a sudden now we have this big crisis and everybody's concerned about and everybody's afraid of. But the crisis only accelerated what was already in place in certain communities. In the African American community, for example, we have a depression-level unemployment, depression-level crisis regarding housing, we have social conditions that are basically like they were in the 1930s. So things have gotten worse for us, but they have never really been that much better. (speaking in foreign language) - Now at the end of 2010, the hope in the presidential change is largely gone. The few reforms that were passed were compromised by the financial players that helped to write them. With the rise of the Tea Party, the Republicans have taken back the Congress, but the working class, the poor and minorities are worse off than ever. Across the country people's stories reveal desperation, indignation, hope, dreams, and a disastrous financial breakdown. Chaos generated by a system of inequality and speculation. But as people told us all across the country, the financial meltdown is just one of the many failures of a much larger problem. One of the many human rights crises now shaking the United States in healthcare, education, housing, et cetera. At the root of all of these is poverty. And the failure of this system to attend to the needs of every person regardless of race, creed, income, citizenship, or location. The answers are not gonna come from above. The solutions to crossing the American crisis are in the hands of the people. (dramatic music) - [Man] What was happening right now in this country and certainly in Vermont equates to a human rights crisis. - We look like Bangladesh in terms of the kind of inequality that's in this society. And it's been increasing rather than decreasing. - It's not that there is no wealth. It's just the access to the wealth and the distribution of the wealth is skewed. It's more skewed now than at any time since 1929, which is very disturbing. ♪ When I say fire you'll say ♪ Next time we the fire (speaking in foreign language) - There's a declaration of human rights that was put forth through the UN, and even though the United States signed it, they don't honor it. And in that human rights declaration, it says that every human being had the right to education, had a right to a house, had a right to all these rights, and they signed this document and then they didn't honor it. So I need to know how the poor people can organize to hold the powers to be in the government accountable to that document that they signed. - [Man] Fenty closed down that homeless shelter because developers want it. Human life is worth more than developer's profits. - This is the Franklin School Shelter. It's an emergency homeless shelter for homeless men, DC streets in this particular area. Unfortunately the DC government closed the shelter and shifted men to various other parts of the city, areas where they have no job access, where they can't get public transportation as easily. And it's late October, it's getting cold outside. Hypothermia season is coming. And unfortunately they're gonna be at disadvantage because there's no other place they'll go. We're trying to reach out to the neighborhood to get DC residents to sign a petition to tell Mayor Fenty that this shelter needs to be open for winter. People have a human right to be in decent shelter, affordable housing. And when you deny them that right, there are people who are going to protest against it. - People are sleeping in the streets. Show some compassion. - It's amazing actually that, you know, we're right by the White House. It's just a couple blocks away. We're like less than a mile away from the capitol, and in this insulated world, politicians walk home, they see these streets, and they don't see the reality on the ground, in their face. - It's the wealthy helping the wealthy. You know? Lower class people? They don't care about you, for real. All they want, when it comes time for voting, all they want is your vote to get in the White House. They say they gonna do this and they gonna do that. Once they get in the White House it's totally different. - [Interviewer] Do you have a place to sleep? You have a place to stay? Do you, ah, have shelter? - No, no. 'Cause last time I went to the shelter, I had some guys tryin' to steal money from me when I was in the shower. You know, so I'm out here on the streets. You know, but I'm makin' the best I can to keep from tryin' to go to jail. I ain't goin' to jail. Yeah, I had a job. I had an apartment, me and my son. My son got killed. Next month will be five years. - [Interviewer] You have other family left now? - Yeah, but it's like you do and you don't. You know. And I don't like to lean on people. You know, gotta have my home. - I worked for 18 years of my life. I worked hard. I had my own business. So there's no excuse for homeless being here. I'll say that. - [Interviewer] Have you already seen more folks in the streets as of the last couple of years? You're seeing folks without jobs? - Oh, yeah, yeah. - Oh, there's quite a few people that come through here, yeah. - [Billy] Plenty of 'em. - And if you don't see 'em on the streets, they're in jail. - [Charlotte] Because the cops don't leave 'em alone. - (laughs) Serious. - They arrest 'em. The police, and I don't care if they hear, 'cause I don't care. The police harass people that has no money. And it's not because you just don't have any money, there's reasons what brings you down. Everybody's got a reason that come down. - [Billy] Yeah, no money. - He's gettin'-- - [Billy] Screwed. - Right now. - I've been workin', paintin', right? I ain't gettin' paid. - They take advantage of the homeless. And I'll tell you one thing. The homeless built half of this place around here. They built a jail, they built a bowl-rev-age, they built the Hard Rock, they built everything around here. - [Interviewer] Where do you sleep at night? How are things? - Oh man, forget about it. You gotta be like genius around here. You go to Penn Station, they hassle you. You can't stay there, if you lay there for two minutes, the officer tap-tap with the night stick comes. Then your blood pressure goes up. Then you gotta try to sneak down to, I sneak down to the pass station sometimes. That's how I got hooked up with this Urban Pathway thing. They got an outreach team that comes down there. And when it's like, when it isn't too cold, you get a box and wrap yourself in a blanket, and you gotta go in a church. I go on 63rd and Park Avenue. Most of these guys just want a little space and something to sleep on and a bathroom. Is that so tough? But with a door to close so you're by yourself, you can't fight with anybody. You go to a shelter, forget it. It's horrible. - [Interviewer] Wow. - Yeah, it's all stealing. You know, you gotta watch your back. You can't sleep comfortably. If you give a guy a door, you know, most guys would be happy with that for awhile until they get back on their feet. - [Interviewer] How many people are in pretty much your same situation in New York do you think? (laughing) - Just look on the floor at night. You'll see them. I couldn't tell ya. How many? Thousands. Thousands. - We know that there's enough housing for there not to be homeless. I mean, if you go around Baltimore city, you actually see communities and neighborhoods that are boarded up. Why board them up? Fix them up and let the homeless live in them. There shouldn't be no homelessness. There shouldn't be any hungry people. - At night I work that started here at this firehouse turned homeless shelter. Most of the homeless people that live here actually work at Camden Yards. It's Oriole Park where the Oriole baseball team plays. And we recognize that things wasn't right down there. We were gettin' paid poverty wages. We couldn't really afford to get adequate housing, clothing, food. - We worked at the stadium. We were making less than a hot dog and that really upset me. They put my human life value less than a hot dog. - So we just got together and decided to do something about it. - We're sure enough that we are tired of being treated like pieces of trash. - We decided to take our complaints to our supervisors, to our bosses, to the company that hired us. When they ignored us, we took it a step farther and united. We gave them a lot of options. We gave them a lot of time. It was like, this is what we feel we deserve, this is what we're askin'. When they didn't respect that, we decided to do a hunger strike. We done a couple marches. They ignore it. But when it came to the hunger strike, we caught their attention. We caught the attention of the mayor. We caught the attention of the governor. We made them realize that we weren't invisible, we weren't content with them seeing us as being invisible. Just before we started the hunger strike or we were scheduled to start, they decided to give us what we were asking for. And that was a living wage. ♪ Victory we've got ♪ Victory we've got - [Newswoman] Songs of victory. - Now that the living wage is secure, we cut these bands off to show that we are victorious. - Thank you, Jesus. - And I can accomplish anything. - A living wage is the wage that the state decided an individual or family can live off of and not have to be in poverty. (speaking in foreign language) (violin music) - Green jobs now! Green jobs now! Green jobs now! - Today, September 27th, events like this are happening all over the country. The Ella Baker Center organized the Oakland event and right here what we're doing is showcasing opportunities and solutions for youth and young adults and the green economy. In addition to that we're also making a call out to our elected officials, Congress and ex-president that Oakland's ready, the bay area is ready for green jobs. We're ready for our elected officials to invest in our communities so we can start gettin' people on the ground doing this work. - Want to get a job, got (rapid speaking). Raised (rapid speaking) probably is that we'll never see they summer dreams. - We feel like people are really ready for a change. It's not an opportunity to work at McDonald's. It's not an opportunity to work at Home Depot. But it is an opportunity to put solar panels on a house, to do energy efficiency retrofits, to do green construction, and to get paid a living wage. So when we're talking about green, it's not just about the green job, but it's getting green in your pocket and finding that way out of poverty but into prosperity. - Green jobs. - I'm for green jobs now. - Yeah. - And so we have over I think it's 14,000 square feet in this warehouse. It's a little cold right now 'cause they haven't turned the heating unit on. (laughing) But this is all stuff that we saved from the landfill. So we're doing our job like they said that they would. - My name is Joel Frank. We are in Rebuilder's Source which is a building materials reuse center. It is the first and only reuse building materials center that is a cooperative. So actually pretty much everybody that works here is a worker/owner, and so it gives a little bit of a different dichotomy on how we actually go about operating the business. All this material that you see out here is material that would otherwise have been in the landfill that we've actually taken in and now we resell at a very, very deep discount. So we're kind of like the discount Home Depot, so. But yeah, it's alive. (laughing) - [Interviewer] What is Green Worker Cooperatives? - In short it is an organization that incubates co-ops, so basically what happens is that if you have an idea, you join the co-op academy which if free of charge, you go through that process, and it's basically a learning course that teaches you kind of your, to develop a business plan, marketing plan, sales plan, et cetera. And whichever idea out of that class they feel has the most, GWC feels has the most legs and possibility and dedication, then they go out and they seek funding for that. - [Tylea] So all the cooperatives that we help here have committed to worker ownership and to a positive environmental impact. - [Interviewer] Why are cooperatives so important right now in the United States? - I feel like they are a model for economic development as well as personal development. Unlike any other. It's not the charity model. These are entrepreneurs. And they're entrepreneurs that wouldn't have access to these kinds of opportunities maybe by themselves. - You spend a dollar at a local business, and 45 cents of that stays in our community and it goes directly to first responders, our emergency folks. It goes into our tax base, it goes to our libraries, our park system, it goes into all the things that improve our quality of life. And only 13 cents of that from a big box or chain store stays in our community. So the majority of their money is going back to their headquarters to pay their CEOs, their accounting firms, their lobbying firms, all these different folks that they have. So I feel like what we're doing right now is the most important thing for really keeping our own economy here in the United States solidified, unified. - I'm so happy I do this for a living rather than working in a restaurant like I used to. (laughing) I mention to people that this is the only way that we can stay sustainable and still have the food here in Santa Fe. When diesel was hitting 4.50 a gallon, you noticed all the food prices going through the roof. Well, now we're a deal. And what we're doing locally here at this farmer's market is we're providing fresh food on a weekly basis for a lot of people here. - [Vicki] We have this group of now over 65 networks across the country that are doing this work and I think it's really important and it's not just in affluent communities. These are happening all over the United States. - Redefining growth, redefining return on investment to incorporate quality of life, that nobody is being enriched at the expense of anybody else including future generations. So I think what we're seeing with the meltdown is people recognizing that we've been living both individually and systemically beyond our means, and deciding that maybe that's not the way we want to continue and looking for alternatives. (violin music) - Our life and breath is for the bankers, not for God, not for our brothers and sisters. It's just for the bankers. And we don't know that. We think it's ours. We think we're making choices, but the choices are making us. So it's important that we disengage from that at whatever small increment you can do it. And this is one of the ways we're doing it. I mean, this was the path that we've taken to. This is bio-diesel processing. I got a diesel Mercedes Benz engine in a Dodge Sprinter. - Wow. - And collect the grease from some of the restaurants in the community. You know, we got a lot of grease in our community. Lot of fast food places. Plenty of grease. And the mackinaw here I got a barrel over here, so we're doing 35 gallons worth now. - [Interviewer] Wow. And it all comes from the fast food? Do they give it to you free? Do you stock up on it? - Yeah, I don't pay. I stand by there and pick it up and. Black Oaks is a center in Pembrokes, Illinois. It's a 40-acre site. And we have classes and training and we got a little garden about, the garden is about like maybe an acre, half an acre garden. We got apple trees there. We got a pond. And it's been a place where the community has been coming to for about four years. Kids mostly, doing survival training. So surviving, skills of survival is important because it's a lot of things that we've done that's coming back to bite us. Right here in Illinois most foods here, 99.9/10 of all the food that's produced in Illinois is for export. So that means that 99 9/10 of everything that we eat is coming from someplace else. Now that's not a sustainable. It's terrible, it's frightening when I thought about it that we have the same system that so-called developing countries have. We got the same, we have no food security. We have one hiccup, people starve. - Probably like the bulk of the labor was done by maybe like six people. Like I mean not a huge group. You know, to be honest a lot of people harvest without putting any work into it, but that's what it's about. Like it's for everybody. Sometimes when I'm here like grabbing a few vegetables or something, someone will come up and be like, hey, can I have some? And I'll just be like, yeah, you can come in. It's for you. (laughing) It's for anybody. Lots of people can't work for whatever reasons, but that doesn't mean that they don't deserve the food that the community is growing. I like it. - [Interviewer] And what are the vegetables? What do we got over here? - Oh, we got lots of stuff. There's tomatoes, there's basil, there's parsley. Tomatoes were good because this season there was the salmonella thing around the tomatoes, so it was nice to be able to come here and get tomatoes. Like I know the people who work on this garden. So to me it doesn't get much better than that. (laughing) (speaking in foreign language) - But we need the city to take leadership to restrict autos on the street and implement bus only lanes now. - [Crowd] Bus only lanes. Bus only lanes. Bus only lanes. Bus only lanes. (speaking in foreign language) - We're not gonna be able to reduce the auto unless we restrict the space of it and provide a quick, efficient alternative that's as good. (speaking in foreign language) - [Interviewer] Even if you can catch the bus to the hospital, that doesn't mean you'll be treated. Part of the reason why workers in Vermont are fighting for universal healthcare. Care they say should be a human right. - [Man] What do we want? - [Crowd] Healthcare! - [Man] When do we want it? - [Crowd] Now! - [Man] What do we want? - [Crowd] Healthcare! - [Man] When do we want it? - [Crowd] Now! - Healthcare is the leading cause of homelessness, of bankruptcy. It's crazy, so it's only because we've allowed these greedy interests and to commodify what should be a public good. - The healthcare crisis is enormous, and it's not just a question of all the 47 million people that don't have healthcare. It's also the people who have healthcare who might lose it because of losing their jobs and because companies are trying to save money, especially now with this economy. Benefits are going down the tubes. Even when they have healthcare, each year their premium, their copayments get higher and higher. And you have to worry about if you lose your job, you lose your healthcare. - And from the onset, the conversation that was started in Washington really took off the table what we're fighting for. The idea that healthcare would be a public good for everyone. That your access to healthcare is not determined by all these variables that are out of your control, how much money you have, what kind of job you have, where you live. That we need to just like like we have public education, just like we have a fire department, we need to have healthcare for everybody. And so that conversation was never allowed to happen on a federal level because the first bill was written by a former executive of one of the biggest insurance companies in the country. So in Vermont we're trying to really have it be an effort that's grounded by people and the most affected people in the current crisis. - [Man] What do we want? - [Crowd] Healthcare! - [Man] When do we want it? - [Crowd] Now. - As a self-employed carpenter struggling to make ends meet for many years, I had to choose between being homeless or having health insurance. - I can't adjust, can't afford them. You do the math and the money's just not there. - I've seen people with diabetes, even well-managed diabetes, that ignore small ulcers on their feet that are easily treatable, but they can't get treatment for because they don't have insurance. And they end up losing their foot, sometimes their entire leg. - I would say to our legislature is that we are here to do the hard work with you. And moving Vermont forward to recognizing healthcare as a human right. - Now is the time to demand that our government do our will without interference from any corporation and they must create a real healthcare system. - [Crowd] Healthcare is a human right. - We are an incredibly wealthy country, but it's all in a few people's hands. So that's the grass roots movement that we're building to change was politically possible around healthcare is ultimately a movement of democracy and equality. - [Interviewer] During the economic crisis, while the banks were bailed out and funds were cut from public services, defense spending actually increased. All told the United States now spends more than a trillion dollars a year on defense, equaling nearly half of the world's total military expenditure. While a multi-million dollar private defense industry profits, hard-working cash strapped American families are left to foot the bill. The cost is not just in dollars, but in lives, both at home and abroad. This is your son here Brian? - [John] Yeah. - [Interviewer] How old was he? - [John] 22. - [Interviewer] And how long had he been in Iraq for? - [John] He got there in March. And then September 6th. March to September 6th. - [Interviewer] I'm sorry, John. - [John] Yeah, that's a tough deal, but I do know he's all right. Yeah, I'm pretty sure of that. I told him before he went, I said, you're going to a dangerous place, but if you're morally right, you ain't got nothin' to be afraid of. And that's the way he lived. These guys came to the funeral. They drove all the way out here from California. - [Interviewer] Wow. - [John] And they said he was morally right. So that's about all you can ask for. - [Interviewer] Yeah. - We should've never went in there. Never. That is a, those people are of a different culture and I'm sure they're good people, and but they value their land as, that's part of their heritage and their land, and for a foreign country to come in is, I just cannot agree with that. They were zero threat to us. If they would've attacked us, it would've been different. But they did not attack us. And for us to go to a war over lies, somebody should be held accountable. That's discouraging to, I'll say this, many kids get killed and injured and you also have to think of the, I guess it's close to a million Iraqi people, or up in the hundreds of thousands that's been killed. - [Interviewer] Was that his plan? To come back and keep farming? - Well, he talked about becoming a coach, but his buddies said that he was gonna be a farmer. So who knows. - [Interviewer] Some tractors stand empty on overgrown fields, but those veterans who do make it home often have a hard time just getting the basic services they deserve. In response groups like Iraq Veterans Against the War, are organizing for a veteran's bill of rights. Others are simply calling for the troops and the money to come home. - Take the money that's being used for the Pentagon, and well, 20 billion dollars in my state alone going to the Iraq and the Afghan wars, and taking that money and instead of using that for weapons of destruction, using that for human needs at home. Healthcare education, rebuilding our cities. (van rumbling) - You know, like one of the first things that happened, last year when we went into this economic crisis, is there were billions of dollars given to the banks, but no community reinvestment act, there was talk about school construction, but there was no school construction. There was talk about improving education, but really our schools have not improved. They're actually talking about in a lot of states including New York making more cutbacks including taking teachers out. - And only at the moment, only 53% of black boys finish high school in America. - We have a dropout rate of 45% in this community. - [Woman] So no matter what statistic you read, more people are dropping out of, more youth are dropping out of DPS schools than completing them. - And they said 23% retention rate. And so, that's like the people who like to go there and finish it. - [Woman] All the way through. - [Interviewer] Wow. - If our graduation rates have not gone up since the 1960s when the Civil Rights Amendment was supposed to equalize schools and equalize education, if our graduation rates are still the same, then it's clear that the scenario has to have gotten worse, right? Because years and years and years of evolution and all these other things has happened, but there's no evolution in our education system. And that just means that our young people are gonna be less educated. Vote less, be less engaged in the discourse in what's happening, and that is a direct problem for this economy. - I mean, one thing we believe is like if youth have more of a hand in creating curriculum, if it becomes a place where we can learn from each other and not just like this one figurehead that is leading class, then it becomes a lot more deep because you invested in it. Like, know there's a reason to come to school every day. - [Man] What's a way that you could explain to me the relationship between egalitarianism, self-determination, to make sense of this transparent leader? - You can explain each one of 'em and separate (mumbles). - Okay, but then how about the part that's related between them? How about if next Saturday, not this Saturday, but next Saturday you guys lead the meeting? We could practice next week. We could practice next week. So that next Saturday you guys could-- - So they (mumbles) show leadership. - Well, you'd be applying leadership. You'd be applying, you'd be doing. It's like you can do science in a classroom or you can actually grow, you can study biology and how plants grow. But another way to do it is for you to actually grow plants. - [Student] Right. - It's one thing for you to talk about history, it's another thing if you go and find evidence and then be a historian. - We got this community school going on and we doin' fine down here. - Yeah, we helpin' people fix they houses, come back home and stuff like that. Help painting they houses and stuff like that. Helping the community out. Helping the community make me feel like I'm a leader and I like doing what I'm doing, and I like helping out the kids and stuff like that, and I think it's a good program for us. - [Interviewer] And how is the free school, how is that different from regular school? - [Renaldo] You can learn more 'cause it ain't as much in classes and stuff like that and you can concentrate and you don't have to rub out no class clowns, no one acting out and stuff like that. So you can learn something in class. - You know what I'm sayin'? Like right now we got this man that's gonna help us, like teach us how to wire, like electrician. You know what I'm sayin'? All types of stuff. You doin' more than one. You know what I'm sayin'? Instead of mathematics, science, and all that everyday, we doin' more than one. We helping the community. Still learning about GD. You know what I'm sayin'? And listen at the same time. So I feel like this is a great school. I think everyone else that's here that don't know about this school need to come and see what we doin' so, that's all I have to say for right now. - [Interviewer] Instead of investing in our future, funding is cut from infrastructure, education, and public services. While prisons are built to house those those that fall through the cracks. (speaking in foreign language) - Yeah, the prison system is out of fuckin' control. And then when you look at it and see that they bringin' in private businesses to run and own prison systems, that let you know somethin' right there. When a businessman can buy a penitentiary, you understand me? And put prisoners in there and make 'em work. Last time I was in prison I was workin' at PIA, I was making fun and story kids toys. I was like, what the hell this got to do with crime and punishment? - We have a growing prison system some would say, the second coming of slavery, some people better informed than me. But I have literature that would suggest that's the truth. Indeed, I spoke at a prison here not too long ago in upstate New York and I was just astounded to see that I'm black, and all the inmates, 240 in the morning, 200 in the afternoon were black and Latino men. New York state has 70 prisons of which 80% of the inmates are black and Latino men. - [Man] They get an X number of dollars for every Indian child that's settin' in that prison. This is a JDC here. - [Interviewer] JDC is? - [Man] Got a JDC right here, that's the juvenile detention. - [Woman] Center. - [Man] Center. - [Woman] Drive through there on your right side. - So you have to keep so many kids in here, so when they were building this, I noticed that, maybe you noticed it, though, that the St. Francis in this school Todd County redid their bylaws and their rules to make 'em more strict so that the kids would fail or violate more rules, and they would started filling this place up more. They bring 'em an orange jumpsuit and they shackle them. Then they have the dog leash underneath their groin so that they can supervise them, so they won't take off. - [Interviewer] And how old are the kids here? - They're young, they're teenagers. - [Woman] I think they're nine years old. - Nine on up to probably 18. - [Woman] 18. - The prison population of Marcus, the biggest in the world. 2.2 million people, I believe. One in nine black kids is in prison under supervision, prison supervision. One in nine. A horrendous number. Now, that's not to say that these kids aren't committing crimes. That's not what I'm saying. But we also know that the numbers started to accelerate when the war on drugs hit. - It's all about arresting folks that's in their addictions. The majority of the folks that's in prison is in there behind their addiction. And voters already voted. 61% over treatment than incarceration. And so when you look at racist programs like Saber Cease Initiative, SCI, and you see how they come into a community and arrest 19,000 people in one year, two years, right? Then you understand why California has the largest prison system, you know there, in the nation. And the second largest in the world. You just walkin' down the street, community resident, and they stopped him, searched him, and threw him in handcuffs 'cause he was on parole. But then they found out later that he was actually doing good on parole. He's got a good job and everything and just got housing and everything. They just criminalize him. And this guy right here, I think he's nine years old. See all those police around him at the bottom? They said that he was playing hooky from school. So they took him, through him against the wall right there. There's like nine officers. They searched him and then hauled him off to jail. Basically that's how we do our work, though. We go out and we monitor the police and if we catch them doing anything that's foul or unbecoming, or they're assaulting anybody, anybody get arrested, we go to the public defender's office, we let them know that we got this video evidence, we got witnesses statements, stuff like that. We organize community residents. We have a meeting every first and third Friday of the month, where we organize community residents to stand up and fight for affordable housing and fight back against police brutality. - [Interviewer] Across the country, 43 million Americans are living in poverty. The largest number in over 50 years. But there is also a growing movement of people uniting to end this system of exploitation and inequality. ♪ Woke up this morning with my mind - All of these issues have one root, and if we can cut the tree off at the root, then it won't keep on springing up. And I think that's why it's important to work in coalitions and the poverty initiatives by bringing the coalition of groups together. It's like you can handle what's going on in your city and I can handle my issue, but we all have the understanding that poverty is the root cause. ♪ I woke up this morning with my mind - Our mission is to raise up generations of religious and community leaders who are committed to building a broad social movement to end poverty led by the poor. - Yeah, this is definitely not something new. We see in the '60s Dr. King's last campaign was the poor people's campaign. Unfortunately he was assassinated and so he couldn't see it through, but you had in 1968 a movement of poor people of all races from all over America, and they converged on Washington DC to build a resurrection city and live in community and they were advocating for an economic bill of rights where the government would allocate a certain amount of money to issues that affect poor people. Unfortunately the poor people's campaign didn't win the economic bill of rights, but it's a great example of how poor people can come together and organize. - We believe a social movement is absolutely vital to dealing with poverty because poverty is a social problem. It's created. It's not something that's been ordained by God. It's not something that has been preordained by nature. (speaking in foreign language) - And if we can organize the poor people, then we can make a change. And it's through building a consciousness, through across a lot of barriers, racial barriers, sexual barriers. - There's not so much as I'm poor and I need to get out of this poverty and this is a way for me to do it, it's more like this is wrong, and something has to be done about it. And that's why I'm a leader in the United Workers. - [Woman] The people united will never be defeated. - [Crowd] The people united will never be defeated. The people united will never be defeated. The people united will never be defeated. - If there's anything the city needs right now, is the USO support. We got a clue as to what we have to do. We have to fight to protect our workers. Privatization should not be the order of the day. And in a state like Detroit where the unions were created for us to have to fight the way we do to have to hold onto these jobs, it's a disgrace before God. - [Man] Yes, it is. - [Crowd] Amen. - We are not tolerating a country that bails out General Motors and Chrysler and cannot guarantee jobs for every American. We cannot have a country where people are being put out of doors by a moratorium on foreclosures not being in place. We have demanded it and we cannot allow our people to go without water and heat and basic utilities. Organizing is the key. Organizing is the key. Everybody in so-called big positions, they work for the people. - [Man] Show me what democracy looks like! - [Crowd] This is what democracy looks like. - I think it was correct that we come to Detroit, which is a place where our people are getting hammered. Unemployment rates are skyrocketing, but I look at General Motors, the office looks fine. I still see people going in in suits with their briefcases. Beautiful building, beautiful architecture, and yet the workers are out of work, and if they're not out of work, they're in fear of being laid off from their jobs. The banks are doing all right. They've been bailed out. But the people have not. - [Crowd] We got sold out! We got sold out! We got sold out! We got sold out! We got sold out! We got sold out! - On Friday morning we're gonna go visit Chase bank. We're gonna cut off our Chase credit cards and we're gonna tell them they're no longer gonna use our money to oppress us. - If you're going to have human rights, they have to be civil, political, but also economic, social, and cultural. That at the center of the human race ideal is the notion of human dignity. And while it is a violation of human dignity to be tortured and we're opposed to that as part of civil and political rights. It's also a violation of human dignity when one cannot have a place to lay one's head at night, to walk the streets without a home, to not be able to feed oneself, to be subjected to an inadequate education. - The financial meltdown was just the tip of the iceberg. A sign that things were not all right. That the country is not well. As people told us all across the nation, we have to take our country back, each human right at a time. The market's not going to solve the problem. The unregulated market is what got us into this mess and what has led to these extremes of inequality. We're the ones that are going to get us out. It's not just our right, it's our responsibility. - The challenges in the economy here are not gonna be solved from a top-down perspective, so while there's absolute need for change in policies, for healthcare for all, for more access to education, to address issues of homelessness and poverty and housing in the United States, there's also real questions about how people are gonna participate in that change. - I mean, I think the first thing is recognizing that if we're gonna make change, it has to be inter-generational. So it has to be parents and young people, elders, and younger kids. Even like little kids, like really looking, having conversations regularly about what does our communities need, what do our neighborhoods need? And instead of just allowing our elected officials to take responsibility, we have to take responsibility for ourselves. (marching band music) - Basically we need to start taking back our government, start taking back our taxes, start taking back our control from our elected officials because they're not putting us first. - We're not gonna have social movements fall out of the sky. They have to emerge both out of consciousness and conditions. And the thing about a crisis like the economic crisis is that it suddenly jars people and it makes people think, what the hell's going on? (speaking in foreign language) - You don't have to look far to find the solutions. The solutions are within you. No one better knows the solutions to your problems than you. However, that being said, you also have got to be committed to bringing those solutions to fruition. No one is going to bring those solutions to fruition but you. - You know, liberated spaces, liberated communities, and that's what we're trying to create here, that's what we're trying to do. - I ask my students who is this sovereign, and they say, the people? And I say well, that's the theory, but how do the people exercise their sovereignty? So this is what the Black Panthers were about. Power to the people. The people have to act through their own organizations to implement division of what life should be like. (upbeat marching band music) - I would say economic crisis to me would be all three of those. It's our housing, it's our jobs, it's the hunger. And what I would like to know, why are people going hungry? Why are our people on the street, staying on the street? And why does it take 'em so long to give us our rights and what to do to us already? - There should be some kind of different agency to handle the corruption. They shouldn't let them be at the top and do whatever they want. You know? Should vote on that? They should have a vote on that. See what they say about that. (laughing) But that'll do it. That's about all I gotta say about it. It's pretty messed up. - We make things happen. We did it here on the Orioles and we're gonna do it at the inner harbor. And we're gonna do it anywhere we choose to do it until poverty is eradicated completely. (cars whooshing) - One of the greatest things you can learn from the history of the UFW and Cesar Chavez is that, it's not, and this is really a quote from Cesar Chavez. He said, "We cannot progress as individuals "while others are left behind." And in think that's remembering those that are picking the fruits and vegetables in the fields, that are being paid the least here in this economy. - Now we just realizing that if they don't care about us, then we have to care about ourselves and we have to make movements that should, that we care about ourselves rather than keep saying, well, my senator's gonna do it for me. You're senator's doing it to you, you know. - Get back to the deal of treat your neighbor as yourself. If you're just gonna go through this life wondering how many dollars you can make before you die and step on people in the process, I think you wasted your life. - On our left we've got fantastic chain stores here. There's IHOP. We just passed a Holiday Inn. There's an American flag. Sprint, Perkins. We've seen these stores about a couple hundred times on our trip so far and here we are back, making the full round trip back to Virginia. (upbeat rockabilly music)