Transcript for The Cake General (2018) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (SF's signature tune is played) (Sad version of Sweden's national anthem is played) That Hasse P-name- - that ... it worked as a helicopter in Köping. Of course the municipality had hoisted any kind of Köping flag that day? It was a great day. You know, I had my eyes on me all the time. I heard so much bullshit about me. "That one has to be put on the psyche." If you look back on life, there is the something that can be compared to the cake? There's nothing. It's the cake. The bounce shoes must be well, Hasse, if we are to be honest- -be your weirdest idea ever? If I had left today, I would have been a millionaire. You can give it to yourself ... - It's not certain. - Yes you! They went at a fucking speed! (A-has "Take On Me" played) (jumping shoes rattle) (moped hums) (A-has "Take On Me" continues to play) (drinks loudly) (blows loudly in a whistle) Hello! Hello! These bouncing shoes is the absolute latest from Hong Kong. And you know them now get to be with and buy from me. This time you can not miss! - Do we have to stand here? - No. Yuk! - Some should not be allowed to show up outside! - He should be sitting in a madhouse! I was ten years old when I first met this time he saw what was called Hasse P. He tried to sell them there strange bouncing shoes outside Ica. I was going to take some orders if anyone is interested. Then you come out to my warehouse. Do not be shy now, for a thousand! None of you will regret it. - Hasse, what are you doing? - Damn, pull yourself up! Where are you going to drop me off this one? the time? Out on some fucking field? There was not much that pointed to that just Hasse this summer- - would change mine or someone else's life. Thank you! Thank you! Hello everyone! But now I'm going to tell you the gory and a little melancholy history- - about how he did just that in my beloved hometown Köping. (happy pop music) Everything was here! Many Produn used to do stomach spasms from five - to kill the myth of that the entrails go out. (loud gasp) His mother, Nina Produn, was known for his terrible tension headache- - which she tried to alleviate with a leather belt around his head. - Many! - Shut up! The Pole Bruno Kaminski had drilled by his wife Sonja Kaminski- - to be able to belch for one minute straight. Köping's coolest dad, Thommy Skott- -he could reverse straight at 100 km / h. Word of Life pastor Andreas Trygg was infamous - for its straightforward way to pick on married women. How was it now? Had you divorced yet? - No, where did you hear that? - Yes, where did I hear that? My classmate Ylva Haglund's mother, Marianne Haglund- - sunbathed most in Västmanland and had married a man - as Walpurgis Night 1979 was struck by lightning. Thomas Ljungqvist just took a single image per photo - and was famous for its incredible punctuality. - Servant, Thomas. - To stop the shoplifting in town ... ... had cardboard dolls of naive police Birger Sjöberg placed in the stores. Great! It is enough. Birger was also chairman in the basketball association - and had lost control over the team - since he recruited American Jerry Baskerville. Listen, damn it! At his first training he drove over Birger out of just hell. The training is not over until you have spat the buckets full! Everyone who drove past Köping received a greeting from the old man - who had not said a single word since his wife died at this crossroads. Johan Hessleryd used to rush down to the pizzeria - every time he heard that a Stockholmer was sitting there. He then bought a kebab that he brought with him rear screw lobed over the Stockholm - while he brought out the Christmas present as his dad found in the Hobbex catalog. If everything went according to plan the Stockholmer turned around in surprise. Then he was called to a duty guilty interrogation of naive Birger. - You get real bangs, don't you? - That's why you use it. And everything flowed as usual out in the sand. - Take it easy now. - No. (long rap) (puking) Hundreds, Many! I liked the people so much which made life in Köping more fun. But there had always been little to say and so with the confidence in the city. We in Köping lived in the shadow of large town Västerås, 40 km away- - and we groped after one's own identity. That was probably why we changed the slogan more times than any other Swedish city. First we tried:"Köping - Between Beijing and New York. " The next attempt was: "Not big, but city." Then came: "Close to everything, far from expensive." And the most stated variant was ... Hold on now! "Köping - a municipality." In 1985 we had gone on real bangs, as the missing Köpinghallen. The Nordic region's largest indoor arena who would have stood here. It seemed to turn around when the welder Atila Balaz- - won eight million on Måltipset and became Köping's first celebrity. But two days later, Atila bought one Ferrari and moved to Västerås. But the worst thing was that Ikea that year closed its department store in Köping. Ikea is fragrant of the big world. It gave us a sense that we existed. Now we did not do it anymore. This is a picture from stock emptying. Those were tough times, but this one day it would finally turn around. We had been told that Köping for would be on TV for the first time. TV2 now broadcasts "Night is the mother of the day" by Lars Norén. And here on TV1 anything can happen. The expectations were huge! And just before 20 all sat down. We'll have a contest about which one which is Sweden's most boring city. Today we will start with Köping. (panting) Köping is an industrial city which can be a little difficult to see. The smoke from the factories gives the town a slightly veiled touch. This silo is 91 meters high, and from here the town looks like this. We were curious about what the people of Köping were doing themselves thought it was the most fun in Köping. Then it turned out that we already had experienced one of the city's pleasures. It's quite fun at the silo. Here can all age groups enjoy the view. Everything from kindergarten to retirement the association is here sometimes. At the patisserie Bivur is served the local pride "half": Leftover teacakes with buttercream, vanilla cream and green icing. No thanks, I think that I settle for coffee. Is there then something which is special about Köping? Yes, Ikea recently closed its loss-making department store here. Ikea has never had to close a department store anywhere in the world. Köping is a beautiful city, beautiful city, beautiful city Köping is a beautiful city, beautiful city - Well, it's good to take in! - This report ... That TV segment hurt so much in all of us who lived in Köping. We had been humiliated and become laughed at the best broadcast time -in front of millions of people. Now we had the stamp as Sweden's most boring city. And in an apartment on Scheelegatan 21- had Hasse P drunk for eight days in stretch after the fiasco with the bouncing shoes. (Kjell Höglund's "Man gets used to it" played) And in the evening comes the crying It's nice to dare to be desperate, feel real You buy some porn in a newspaper machine and goes home and masturbates It's unspeakably meager, but you get used to it You are allowed to get used to it Oh, how I feel bad! - That's enough now. - Va? - Now it must be over. - Uh! For me, it goes very well. You have to stop doing it yourself. See you when we meet, Hasse. (dog skull in the stairwell) Bye! (melancholy piano music) Oh, such a day! This is wonderful. you feel how the spirits of life return. - Really. - Yes indeed! A newly dumped and lonely Hasse decided in that tambourine - that for the first time give sobriety a real chance. - What's up, Edith? - Ellen! He was getting a job on social services - and became responsible for children of addicts - got to have fun, and different, excursions. Here you have excellent chocolate cigarettes. You are welcome. Throat flares are about collecting as much smoke as you can in the lungs. (laughs) - So here we have ... - This is Hasse Tellemar. - ... Ströbo high. - My name is Sylvester. Lives in Hagfors. - It is what it is. - Are you from Hagfors? It is 100 km north of Karlstad. What kind of weather do you have there? Yes you. I'll probably have to look out through the window here, let's see. People are too bad! Listen! If you are part of "Call and we will play", Sweden's largest radio program - so you have to offer a little. Then you have to bid on a show! We also want a show! Yes... Six, five, four, three, two, one ... - Drive now, Hasse! Drive! - Come on now, coward! Hate! Hate! Hate! (the radio is heard in the background) You know it's a trial job. They are children and had to ride their own bikes a busy road when you fainted. You hear! No, you must not continue with this. You have to give me another chance. I really hope you do not fall back into your old habits. It dissolves. Somehow do it it. It makes it. Raj-raj-raj, la-la-la La-la-la Gustaf ... Gustaf! - La-la ... - No no! First fifteen minutes regional news. - Is it a fucking competition? - Yes. In Köping, the residents are disappointed and distressed on Sveriges Television- and the program "Rekordmagazinet" - - where Jan Guillou appointed Köping to Sweden's most boring city. Several have heard of it Swedish Television with complaints ... - Do you eat puzzles ?! - Birger Sjöberg is the coach ... Yes. We have had away matches the last weeks. Wherever we go so people laugh at us. It was thought that this would blow over, but it just grows. Soon the whole country will think so Köping is Sweden's most boring city. We end up in the "Guinness Book of Records"! It's too damn to SVT uses our license money ... This we are going to keep quiet about. We will do not make a big deal of it. (inspirational instrumental music) (shaver sounds) (inspirational instrumental music) Hello! Did you just take the book ?! I'm leaving it back! It's coming back. It is clear that the Ikea department store which recently closed in Köping- -should re-emerge in Västerås. I can not use any other word than ... It's not fair that Västerås gets Ikea- - after they have closed in Köping ... (doorbell) Hey! My name is Hasse P. Now you should hear something that changes your life forever. (outdoor alarm) They're testing the war alarm! (outdoor alarm continues to sound) Is it you who smells? Va? - She is allergic to odors. - It smells like perfume all the way here. That's the point. Too much! Should you have something, or? Yes! And vichy water and three vacuum cleaners, please. We have club soda. Then it must be. Only three vacuum cleaners. Club soda is just crap. It will be 15 kroner. (cash register sounds) You are welcome. This is the "Guinness Book of Records", the world's finest book. If you end up here, then you end up in history. You have to do something like no one else have done before -it's the only thing! A Spaniard ate up an airplane. It took a year, but he ate the hell out of it. - What happened to him? - He ended up in this! - Yes, but how was he? - It does not matter! He became historic. - I thought we would be. - We? We can not let Guillou and the bastards in Stockholm harass this city. I was going to suggest that we would bake something together. Something that can become into hell fucking big! - A vacuum cleaner, right? - No no... Something you can share. A vacuum cleaner is not shared. - I had thought of sandwich cake. - A sandwich cake? Yes! All of Sweden loves sandwich cake. - Even Astrid Lindgren. - Does she? Of course she does! She grew up in the deepest Småland on sandwich cake. Then she ended up in the nice salons, but she loves sandwich cake. - So we would bake a sandwich cake? - The world's highest sandwich cake. Or maybe you mean the world's longest? The world's longest sandwich cake shall we bake. (inspirational music) It was a long life path which had led to the moment- - when Hasse P slipped into Konditori Bivur with its latest genius feature. Hasse had finished school at eight then he had reading and writing difficulties. He became a so-called multi-tasker who moved around the country- - and moved in society's invoice - free fringes. - How do we deal with VAT on this? - VAT? He had a row more or less disastrous business ideas behind -like the lobster plate-the restaurant- - which he insisted on would be open all year round. Or the sea of ​​balls, which he bought loose when Ikea closed. Hasse felt confident that a sea of ​​balls could feel enticing -even without a surrounding department store. (instrumental music) Every time Hasse encountered adversity so his greatest enemy was the spirit. - Where are all the children, then? - Which he always fell back on. He then became part of the gang who partyed down at the stan- - and put Eskilstuna Finns in place when they took spring notes at the Chinese restaurant. What the hell! (large splash) Despite the setbacks, Hasse dreamed that become one of the great entrepreneurs of the 80s - as Sweden's most charismatic top manager, SAS-Janne- - which was always freshly tanned and mocked his tormented wife -when she said he was sunbathing to death. Hasse's childhood friend once told me Ulrika Lütsche- - about the key to SAS-Janne's incredible success. When SAS-Janne has important meetings then he thinks the others are naked. Then he gets a psychological advantage. That was when Prime Minister Olof Palme gave a speech in Köping- - as Hasse had begun their latest tangled relationship. - What's the name of the beautiful miss? - Gunilla. Gunilla? How nice! Nice as a thousand! She was called Dyr-Gunilla, because she came from Stockholm- -which in Köping was considered snobby. Hasse was a real one but impulsive romantic- - who had been married four times and engaged twelve. Several times a week, Hasse tormented himself in the sauna in the bathhouse- - because Ulrika Lütsche said you get them best ideas when it's 110 degrees - and the brain is pushed away to another planet. This advice would come to have significance for this story. (doorbell) (door opens) (door closes) An old man came in a while ago and chewed vacuum cleaners. I wonder if it was someone my mother knew. He had a completely sick idea: everyone is breaking records nowadays- - and he wants us to bake the world longest sandwich cake, probably 25 meters! Then maybe you get started too. And see it as a thing for the family. Mom would have loved this. You know what it's like to get up at half past two in the morning, six days a week. And every Sunday are friends for baking for coffee. Everything happens outside that bakery which you have fitted in my lap. It's just her air, Dad. Do something for us sometime. Okay, great. There you go! - Good! I'm happy that way. Good luck! - Thanks. When will this spectacle take place launching? In four weeks, Guinness will arrive record book hit. Then there will be a folk festival! - Do you think? - It is clear that it will be! Many people think that we should lie low after this TV segment. I think just the opposite. We need something which puts Köping on the map. We have Scheele. - Scheele? - Yes, he discovered the oxygen. - Did he discover the oxygen? - Yes. The acid has always been there! It becomes not better because it gets a name. It was just as much oxygen before it was called oxygen? Mm ... We need something positive. That's going to be good. Thanks. - Are you satisfied already? - Yes. Good. Thanks. What the hell is this? "Together with the siblings Sjöman at Konditori Bivur "- - "will Hasse P bake the world's longest sandwich cake. " - It's fun if something happens! - You could have asked me first. - You had never agreed to it. - Of course not. What the hell have you done? You have pierced the wrong ear. You have the ring in the gay ear! I have not. Right is the gay ear. - According to whom? - She in Västerås who did it. You may not be gay in Västerås, but you are gay in Köping. - If you have holes in both, then? - Then you are well bee. - Bi? - When you like boys and girls. - If you're a guy? - Yes, or if you are a girl. (slams the tailgate) - We're not going to bake a fucking cake. - It can make Dad pull up. Then we'll do it with Hasse P, a fucking alkis! You know what alkis are like - a lot of talk and zero workshop. - It's just like mom. - Be a little positive towards people. He's totally fucking stupid in the head! Sorry. No problem. I'm so used to it! Did you want something, or? Are you going to put Köping on the map with a sandwich cake? You should not waste time with such things- -for Hasse, he's ... a joke. Everything he touches becomes failure. The whole town will laugh at you when he's run this shit. That's how it is. No no no! No... When did this happen? This story is about my dad too. Oh my God! I do not know what to say. What has happened? Marc Chagall is dead. Now the modernists are falling away from us, one by one. Dad really was kindest in the world- - but he was not like the other fathers in Köping. - Lars! You bought too small bandages again! - Oh my God! They come in so many different sizes. It depends on how abundant the bleeding is is, and mother bleeds tremendously. Mom used to joke openly about dad's sexual awkwardness - but when I once rooted in his nightstand - then I discovered that he at least tried to improve. (movie sound) Dad wanted me to learn about the dark sides of life. When I was nine, he took me with him on the movie "Salò -Sodoms 120 days". This was Pasolini's last film. He was murdered shortly after the premiere. A male prostitute drove over him fifteen times with a car. Why did they poop on each other in the movie? That's another way to express love on, Filip. Your mother and I. are more traditional. Dad's clumsiness was a bit of a snack in my class ever since the school had arranged one car mechanic course for students' parents. This is washer fluid. Does anyone want to try filling? There are some holes there to choose between. Here you can turn. No, it says "danger". - Lars! - If... (hard rock music from the radio) (French sounding music) Do you have a napkin? He loved France so much that he converted to Catholicism. According to Dad all came well from France- -even the song "My way". We go and buy sanitary napkins for mom. Do you know the name "bandages" in French? To sign with their love to France- - he would have to wear that beret evenly. Chagall apparently weighed only 27 kilos at the end. He was like a little chick, completely eaten from the inside by the cancer. His last wish was a glass sauternes from the Bordeaux region. The doctors had to pry open their jaws and inject it with a pipette. Artists, Filip, are never happy. No, he was not like the other fathers in Köping. Dad, it's locked! And that was probably why they teased me. (the ball is kicked around) Tempo, guys! - How was it now? Did you divorce? - No, where did you hear that? Yeah, who the hell said that? What is his name in the charcuterie at Ica Furan? Do not forget that it is a match on Saturday! Collection at eight on Zigenarbacken. Good! Well played, Filip! The French midfielder Marius Trésor smoked 60 cigarettes a day. Shit! There comes Thommy Skott. (car cords) (hosting) (the children cheer) Thommy! Thommy! Thommy! Come, Filip, now we're going home. Check out what a weird beret! Look, he got completely dirty! Check out his weird cap. (melancholy piano music) (French music from the car stereo) It's your fault they're teasing me. (rock music from the car stereo and car engine humming) That alludes to a sexual action performed with the mouth. (turns off car stereo) (melancholic piano music) 500 meters ?! I promised the Guinness Book of Records 500 meters. That's how long it's going to be. (rattle with baking sheets) It sounds a lot - and the best but it is that it is also a lot. It's half a mile. Do you understand how much it is? It may not be so fresh that you sit where we bake everyone's buns. 500 meters with happy, happy people eating our sandwich cake. 10,000 people should stand in the square and eat. Not even Carola drew 10,000! So she's not a sandwich cake either. That said with all due respect. Yes, it's fine. We can bake intermittently. We're still up all night. Come on, damn it! It can be something cool. I'm getting dressed to sell 10,000 advance tickets. When it pulls together towards the record then I will pay back to you. If there is anything left over, we will share on it or donate to Africa. That's probably the way it is now. This is stuff! This is my station. It's Dad's. We have not used it for several years. How does Dad view his part in this? He has not made a knot sen mamma dog. Richard Dybeck wrote Sweden's national anthem. He was from Köping. From here! He put Köping on the world map, now it's our turn! So! So! You old, you free, you mountain north You silent, you joyful beautiful! I greet you, loveliest land on earth Your sun, your sky, your green meadows Your sun, your sky, your green meadows That will be good. I have to wedge! That should be enough now. - Where are you going? - I'm going to find an office. Va? (Björn Skifs "Michelangelo" is played) Hi, you're here to Hasse P's trading company HB. There are many who are calling right now. The here is an answering machine - then leave a message after the tone, then someone calls. Hey! (loud error signal) (engine idling) (moans) (French national anthem is played) (engine malfunctions) (engine malfunctions) (French national anthem continues to play) I see through these. - Skillful. I tried to call ... - The subscription is in progress. We must have some permission to do this. The police got in touch. They must have read about it in the newspaper. And they had not caught you. - Got me? Why? - You can fill it in. You are responsible. Can't you take this? I do not like it. It is for a lot of forms in this country. What to fill in? Date of birth and the last four digits. What shit! If you write incorrectly you have problems for the rest of your life. How did it go? with ticket sales? Good. - Have you started yet? - I've sold ... a number. - I'm going out this afternoon too. - Start now! And fill in that one. (childish, happy music) We've tried to have people who talk before, and cheerleaders- -but people are not interested. The evening is about basketball, not about your big plans. - You can get two minutes, max! - Listen, wait ... - Could we go another way? - Why? It's the world's detour. - Go a little before you, and I'll come. - You get two minutes, and that's the maximum! Look who we have here, then! Are you moving to Monaco now, or? And nice portfolio with Hasse's important papers! Greet the bank! You are who you are, you know! The emperor's New Clothes. It is quiet. He's sitting here again soon. You should have this. Or who should have it? You take it. A-side, maximum volume, when I am lifted down. Hey you! Do not expand this. Maximum two minutes. Oh oh oh... Yes ... It's good, it's good. Keep going, just! Now they come in here! Can't you hold the audience a little? This should be a surprise! - You, have you divorced yet? - Where did you hear that somewhere? Yes you. I think it was Per Granberg of all people. - In any case, that is not true. - No. We have to start this now. Hello! (cheers) It is good. It is good! - Before we start, we have a guy ... - I love you, Birger! ... which means a few words. Give him a round of applause! (half-hearted applause) The music is coming! Turn on the music! (dripping music) Damn how well you are doing, Hasse! (turns on the microphone, late acoustic tour) Hello everyone! Hello, Köping! Are you feeling good? My name is Hasse P. I was as pissed off as you when I saw the feature on TV about Köping. To put Köping on the map- - I'm going to bake the world's longest sandwich cake. You only make it worse for Köping! - How boring he is! - Will there be a match, or? It will be a world record. After the match, I'm sitting here a small table and sells tickets. - Round off now. - Remove him, damn it! Do you want to see Baskerville pound the basket? - Yes! - No no! We have no spare glasses. I said:Do you want to see Baskerville pound the basket? Jerry, we have no spare glasses! We do not have any reserve glasses! (glass shattered and great cheers) Do you bring home a glass? No, that does not work. Good luck. (rattles with the glasses) Cheers, Hasse! Cheers! You have too high expectations, Hasse. Then you will only be disappointed. Disappointed is the only thing I have become. It is therefore I was thinking of doing something new. Do something like ... Do something for real! Which I succeed with. - A sandwich cake? - Yes. The world's longest. Hate, Hate, Hate ... No one will listen on someone like you. (Jefferson Starships "Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now" is played) (the engine accelerates and Lars cheers) (cry) Oh! Now it's something who has hooked up. Bravo! Half time. Yes, but now the freezers are full. - Do you need freezers? - Yes, big. You see! Yes, look. Wow, so nice! The ice cream company has Köpings largest freezer. I'm arranging a meeting. The municipality got in touch. We do not have a permit yet. Have you not posted the form? But what the hell, Hasse! They can give permission immediately, but you must go there and convince them now. - Can you take it? - Why would I take it? Because ... I'm having a hard time to talk to people, quite simply. - Hasse, you're great with people! - Not with people who have come somewhere. These are ordinary people. Come on now. We have baked 250 meters of cake. You just do this! Go in and drive over them. Show them whose locker is. Go there now! (cheerful music) Hello, I see you're still standing. Go now! (sighs) Never before have so many had so little to thank you so much ... Never have so ... ... for so little. No! You talking to me? (loud signal) The world's longest ... (ominous music) (panting) Okay, Hasse, you get the permit. But do not embarrass us now. (Sandra's "Mary Magdalene" is played) I would like a vichy water. - Who do we have here, then? - Hello. "Largest and goast in the world, Hasse P. " Yes you! That's how it is. Are you both the biggest and the goast? - Are you from Glassbolaget? - Yes. Thank you for taking the time. Do you have room in your freezers for a hell of a lot of cake bases? Please. Don't talk jobs now! First you have to show what you stand for. I love this song! (F.R. David's "Words" is played) If you do not marry me I'm committing suicide! Now look at the bride. There you go. Great! Lol! Perfect. The storm that affected eastern Sweden pulls away -but can affect northeastern Norrland. A drier southwest wind spreads tomorrow and the cloud cover is getting lighter and lighter. Still can local rain showers occur. The west coast gets sunny. Can't come? When was the last time you were at a wedding? You can go to dinner at least, then we can go home late. You think only you miss her. You feel so damn sorry for yourself! (exhales trembling) That's five years ago. What the hell are you going to do with this one ?! Do you think mom is still in it? (opens and slams the door) (wears in the door) (sad music) (sobs) Do not you understand that we want you to join? (Bridal march by Mendelssohn played on organ) (dance band music in the background, loud kisses) - You, had you divorced? - Where did you hear that? Yes you. Was it her ...? Rigmor Norberg, I think. She at the Video Point. That's not true. - How do you feel about Hasse? - Hate? Yes, folks, then I hope that avocado tasted! Now it's high time for the evening's only registered speaker - and it's Hasse's childhood friend Ulrika Lütsche! Yeah, how fun. Yes, Hasse ... You're damn incomparable! Unbelievable! Hasse and I have known each other for many, many years. Although we have known each other for many years there has been nothing between us. But I'm very happy that I'm not married to him. I've been there a few times now. It's been Anna, Karin, Sofia, Pernilla- -and so now. I do not know what your name is, me calls you the "ice cream company woman". Fifth time valid, Hasse! Congratulations! - Agnetha. - Her name is Agnetha. Is it true? Have you been married to all the ones she rabbled up? Did you get married or is it just some you have slept with? Respond! - But what the hell! I... - Has he been married to all of them? - I have lived a long life! - No no no! Listen! Let me go, you fucking liar! The is exactly what everyone else has said! (murmur) I thought that you had told me, damn it! And so little nice music on this. (Whitney Houston "Greatest Love of All" is played) And your fucking cake bases can you drive up your ass! She took that really well! - Do you have divorced? - Yes. Then it happened. This is not run. You can save some down there. - Are you kidding? - It's raw. We can only increase! You have just baked on the nights. Now we get to bake for the days. - We? - I can learn. I'm so fucking tired of you, Hasse! It's not possible. Face the facts! There is one, two, three, four, five ... - I'm going to pick them up. - You do it. (melancholy music) - This. - Yes, look at it! Hey! I'm Hasse P. I bake the cake with your children. We've got unforeseen problems, and now we only have four or five days on us. We have to bake 300 meters of cake base fast as hell. I have heard that you are Swedish fastest baker. Is it true? Now you have the chance to make a comeback, to break a world record. That would mean a lot, perhaps especially for your children. Is that a yes? Do we have a yes? Hard to know if it's a yes or a no. It looks the same. I know you've suffered. It has your children also done. I have suffered. You can not just throw in the towel and believe that everything will work out. You have to crawl down on the floor and pick up the fucking towel. I've picked up thousands! Disappointed every employer, wife and friend. I've done everything wrong, but now I'm trying to do something right. I do not say that you have done as I did. I've woken up in the rubble, in deep puddles. You may not have done that, but you have let your children down. You can do something about it now. Things can be changed. Do not live in the old! It would make all the difference if you helped. Va? You can not... (melancholy music) Or you can choose to sit away all his fucking life! (murmur) (Claude François "Comme d'habitude" is played) Come on now, Lars! Come on now! (Claude François "Comme d'habitude" played higher) (murmur) Oh my God! (Claude François "Comme d'habitude" sounds dull) Philip! Philip! Come on, let's go home to mother and Linda- - and then we eat something good tonight all together and have a cozy time. Philip! (doorbell) (melancholy but hopeful music) Buy a ticket? - The world's longest sandwich cake. We can do it now. Dad bakes like a fool all day, and Pelle and I drive at night. - Do you mean it? - Birger's basketball juniors help. How many tickets have you sold? - How many? - Yes, what can it be? What the hell! What is this?! How many have you sold, Hasse ?! Pretty good anyway. 90, perhaps. - 90 ?! - About. - You promised to sell 10,000! - Yes, but I do not think that ... Pelle and I have quit our money in this. We'll never see them again, will we? Or do you have a master plan? You're sitting on your fucking invention. office in your clown costume - and think you're something! Now I have joked me out for the whole town! You're just a fucking alkis as everyone says. (melancholy music) (country rock music is played) In the pressured situation, Hasse understood that he needed to think in new directions. Soon a very strange plan began formed in his head. He would have to borrow for it 5,000 kr. His childhood friend Ulrika Lütsche called his conflict-ridden husband Rickard- - who had inherited 20 million from one occupation in what was then West Germany. And even though it hurt all the way in in the soul of the rubbed Rickard- -so he did as he was told. If Hasse were to succeed in selling 10,000 tickets in a short time - then he needed to attract people with more than just a sandwich cake. He was convinced that the people of Köping would love a lottery - where they could win something as far-fetched as: The world's longest liver pie. Hasse still believed hard on the pie as a concept. But when he would trumpet the news in the media - said the difficult-to-flirt journalist Lennye Osbeck only: Is it slow with the tickets, or? Hasse needed nothing more than a sandwich cake and a three meter long pie. Maybe a great way to transport the pie to the cake? With the last piece of the puzzle left to solve - he suddenly heard sounds from outside the children's pool and became curious. Last decisive punishment! If you take it, we will win, Birger! Now it's Philip's turn to finish? He's been sitting there the whole match. - It doesn 't matter, Dad. - Exactly! Now we drive as intended. Have you heard of it? about psychological warfare? You move the opponent in rocking - by changing the conditions. Suddenly, completely without warning. European Championships in Paris last year: France-Belgium, semi, penalties. Belgium must score another goal to win. The air is still. French coach replaces Joël Bats, which has stood the entire tournament. In comes Albert Rust, a completely unknown human being. The Belgian penalty shooter do not know what to think about Rust. He's shooting the penalty ... and Rust tipped the ball over the crossbar. France goes to final, wins European Championship - and lands by helicopter in a square! It's an incredible atmosphere when the law Captain Michel Platini raises the buck and 60,000 Frenchmen roars its joy all over Paris. - But now we are actually in Köping. - No, now we're tamejfan in Paris! Just. Now we're in Paris, and now we let Filip stand in the goal. - You can do it, old man. - Yes! Come on now, Philip! (splash) Come on now, Philip! - Come on now, Philip! - Do you know this? Yes! There you see! Anyone can become a hero! (hopeful music) Thanks. Thanks! Good, Philip! (sighs) (dance band music on the radio) We have struggled with this shit around the clock now ... If we join Guinness is it worth anything anyway. But the bakery smokes. We are not allowed to our money. It's going to be the king! - The damn cp pie does not help. - What should we do instead, then? If we set, we have 500 meters cake base to sell to Västerås. Västerås ... Do you think Västerås is like Stockholm? Have you read the shit they write in the newspaper? You do not give up, do you? You said Hasse did not could be trusted. You were right. You have the chance to do something big. You listen to people like us, those sitting on the replacement bench. You can change this city. No other. Mom started the bakery 40 years ago late. I can 't throw it away. Ing-Marie would have loved this, you know that. Can 't you do that? for her sake? Yes ... What are we going to do, then? It's a show tonight, full of people. Take Hasse there and let him tell you. - It went really well in basketball! - Then he was an idiot. Hung in rings and played clown. He did not speak from the heart. Now he's going to do it! He should go there, he should be himself and say this: "We here in the country, we can also succeed with something. " If he does, then they will to listen. Now we do this! Two rings in the ears now. Have you become bisexual? (melancholy music) - Yes I think so. - Good. You can be too. (loud steps) I was going to ask if I could get up on stage at break and say a few words. Yes Yes. But a maximum of two minutes. That's all you get. - You, have you divorced? - I've never been married! - Where did you hear that somewhere? - I probably have not heard it. Ladies and gentlemen -Jan Guillou! (applause) Welcome! The question is thus how Sweden most boring city to rise again. We'll bake a cake! The world's longest cake! (applause and laughter) Servant of you, buddy! (big laugh) Dear TV viewers, as you hear will turn everything around for Köping- - thanks to Hasse P will bake a cake. - What do we have to drink? - Here it is only strong that matters! It's a cake. (big laugh) The world's longest sandwich cake! (applause and happy music) What is it with you? What are you doing?! You're doing away with yourself! What the hell have you done for Köping? Sitting and grinning! - Hate! - Hate! Hasse, shit in that! Care not about that. They're just idiots. You ... What are you going to do now? Are you just going to give up, right? You can 't do that. You are always positive. You understand that I can not go back and sell tickets- - after this? Its no one who wants this cake. (melancholy music) I'm a fucking clown! You are no clown! No other had come up with something like this. People like you are needed. Hate! Why do divers throw themselves backwards? Forsman, you pulled that one! - Hey! - Can you come on board? - How are you? - I'm doing fine. Now I'm shitting on this.Nobody wants to listen anyway. - How is it? - Give me a bottle now. - Take a berry instead. - Here you go. I'm bidding. - You should not drink that now. - Hate! No! Take a berry instead. Take a berry, my friend. - No! - Calm down! What the hell! You have the cake tomorrow. What are you doing? Oh oh oh! I do not recognize the hell the constellations longer. It's cloudy. (Hasse laughs) There's a star. What a fucking star! What a fucking star! (everyone jokes and laughs) Now we're throwing away! (happy music) (happy music) (murmur) Make sure they stand together. That's really good! Great! There must be no gaps between the bottoms. Then we will be washed. Exactly. We'll have that damn record. Regardless of whether there are any people coming. You listen to "Call and we'll play". Now the locks have opened for everyone lives in Västmanland with final number nine. It is Västmanland that applies. The city of residence Västerås is a real bandy mecca - and there they will build one like this skyscraper. You would not have thought so! (host on the radio) - Hate! - I have to stop smoking ... - Hate! Wake up now! - I've promised my wife that for a long time. You with final number nine in Västmanland are therefore welcome to call. - We may have the chance here. - What is it? Hate, wake up! (dance band music is played on the radio) Welcome to Swedish Radio. I have the final number nine. Wait a minute, and we'll connect. - Hate! - What is that for? I'm connecting you to Hasse Tellemar. Say what you would say at the show! Now they are listening. This is "Call and we'll play". Who do I have on the thread? - Hello? - Now my technician waves his hand. You have to turn down the radio at home. You must not have the radio in the same room. - Who am I talking to? - Who am I talking to? - You're talking to Hasse Tellemar. - Is that Hasse Tellemar ?! - Yes. And what's your name then? - Hasse P. - And where do you live somewhere? - I live in Köping. Oops! There you have heard that it's not that fun. - Hello? - I'm here. Good! What happens today? I would ... I had thought that ... - Yes? - I was going to do ... - I'm listening. - ... the world's longest sandwich cake. - Oh! How long will it be? - 500 meters. - And it's you who baked it? - No, certainly not! It's the family at the Bivur patisserie here in the -who are the heroes behind it. - It's Åsa and Pelle and Ivar. - I understand, I think. - What has been your role? - I did not do a fucking shit. What was the purpose of this cake? To gather and unite the population here in Köping about something positive- - something in common to be proud of. You get sad when someone is sitting in Stockholm and talking shit. Storstan always tracks down small town, and it takes. It takes. There is a pride, there are traditions ... I wanted to show on a fucking creative force. It is also found in the countryside, here in little Köping. That sounds nice, but a little different too. Maybe it was a little too different. Yes you. There are not many who dare to be different. Most people want to be like any other. I never wanted to be. To be like everyone else, what the hell is that? Some have to go their own way. That's what I've been trying to do. I must have been too much of an idiot - for people to believe that I can succeed. He may not be so stupid after all! 500 meters is the tank, and "Guinness record book "comes here and measures. - It sounds a little funny. - Maybe we should go down and take a look. Thanks, Hasse. You do not get such calls every day, but now we have to round off. We have to put Kjäll Fröderberg in the gramophone archive at work. What is your wish list? Do you have a wish song? Do you know which song which was written in Köping? (Sweden's national anthem is played in a melancholy version on violin) (helicopter noise) - Are you kind and help me? - Okay. Hold the measuring tape next to the edge there. This is an attempt to be included in the "Guinness Book of Records". Now we'll see how it goes. Hold it firmly. Thanks. All is well? It can not be legal to fly with that. Are you sure that it's illegal, then? It looks promising. Nice what you said at Tellemar this morning. (scraping sound) - It is the pie that comes loose. - Hell! But what the hell are you doing ?! In with you! What the hell are you doing?! Came back! In with you! Andreas. I want a divorce. Well, you think so, you. - What would you like the pie for? - I do not really remember. It was probably not just me who listened to the radio this morning! (Sweden's national anthem in nostalgic version) (big ovation) Look, Philip! There he is - the cake general. (fine tuned music) Congratulations! Thanks! Thank you for believing in me. Hasse's sandwich cake became 510 meters long - and still is, according to "Guinness record book ", the world's longest. Hasse P! But that was not the important thing. We had regained our self-esteem. That very day Köping was felt as Sweden's funniest city. In particular, had 10,000 people listened to someone like Hasse. Many of us realized that day that all people are worthy of a chance - even if life has placed them on the replacement bench. (cheers) Hasse never managed to repeat the success with the sandwich cake. Life went on in the same tangled spirit: New failed projects in new cities, new divorces and new relapses. He was only 60 years old when his poor health forced him- - to move into a nursing home on the outskirts of Västerås. My name is Hasse P. You already know that. When he felt the worst, used to he tell about the cake once more. Here we have the sandwich cake. Then it felt a little better again, when someone listened. We landed here. And here you can see little Hasse P getting out of the helicopter. He returned to Köping only once- - when he knew that it would soon be over. (melancholy music) - Thank you for the loan. - Thanks. (the melancholy music continues) So. Now you get to film a little, Dad! - Okay. - So. What about the voice? You sound awful. Yes. I have to clear my throat. Follow. Now we meet Hasse. It was he who did that I stopped being ashamed of you. Voilà! Then I have you. If you look back on life, there is the something that can be compared to the cake? There's nothing. It's the cake. It was right here the helicopter landed. Yes, here. Here. Here you took the steps. There were a lot of people here, right? - It was 20,000. - No, it was not! - Yes, it was 20,000! - Not 20,000. - 20,000 it was. - Not 10,000, then? No, 20,000. - Hasse, now you're sharpening a little. - No! - Does Ivar know we're coming? - Yes. The whole family is there. Åsa and Pelle too. - Hey! - The situation? (A-has "Take On Me" is played in a melancholy version) This was wonderful! This is what I needed. Hi then, Hasse! (Tommy Nilsson's "One Day" is played)