Transcript for The Littlest Angel (1969) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [water whooshing] [whimsical pan flute music] [gentle harp music] ♪ My father told me Julius Caesar ♪ ♪ Stood on a hill in Rome ♪ ♪ On a morning like the one we've got today ♪ ♪ And said to his troops as he looked past the city ♪ ♪ He called his home ♪ ♪ I am master of all I survey ♪ ♪ Well I'm not Julius Caesar ♪ ♪ As anyone could see ♪ ♪ But I'm eight years old this morning ♪ ♪ And I can truly say ♪ ♪ That this meadow is a kingdom ♪ ♪ To me ♪ ♪ Where I'm master of all I survey ♪ ♪ Of mountain and river and blue summer sky ♪ ♪ The sheep are brave soldiers ♪ ♪ The dog is a sergeant, but a general am I ♪ ♪ I'm master of all I can see ♪ ♪ The trees in the meadow are bending to me ♪ ♪ And as they begin it I feel for the minute ♪ ♪ I'm taller than Caesar could be ♪ ♪ I ordered the bees to buzz me before ♪ ♪ They fly to their honeycomb ♪ ♪ For I may just feel like taxing them ♪ ♪ Two skins of honey to take home ♪ ♪ I'm master of all I survey ♪ ♪ If I blow my pipe every creature on Earth must obey ♪ ♪ 'Cause my father put me in charge of all that we know ♪ ♪ And I'm lord of all things, the king of all kings ♪ ♪ Who ever sat on ♪ ♪ A throne ♪ [playful orchestral music] I'm going home for lunch. Sergeant, mind the troops. Hey, you lost your collar. Where'd you lose it? Come on, let's find it. [playful orchestral music] ♪ I'm making the bluebells ring me a tune ♪ ♪ At 24 after two ♪ ♪ And this afternoon I'm having a fog lift ♪ ♪ Tomorrow morning's dew ♪ Here it is, it's broken. I'll make you another one, all right? ♪ I'm master of all I survey ♪ ♪ If I said the word every colorful bird ♪ ♪ Would go gray ♪ ♪ Since my mother made me a man ♪ ♪ I'm seven feet high ♪ ♪ I am David, I'm Saul, the tallest of tall ♪ ♪ The ruler of all ♪ ♪ Am I ♪ Sergeant broke his collar. Mother, look, Sergeant broke his collar. Can I keep it? - Ask you father. - Can I keep it, Father? I'll put it in my box, all right? - When are you going to stop saving everything you find? After all, Michael, you're eight years old, old enough to take care of a flock. Too old to be saving junk. - It's not junk, it's a treasure. - All right. Then get the wood, help your mother. A mule loses a tooth, he saves it. A tree loses a twig, he saves it. Michael? - Yes, Father? - Your mother's waiting. - Michael. - Yes? - Mind you hurry back. - Yes, Mother. - Treasures? - Boy's gold. [whimsical pan flute music] [wind whistling] [wings thumping] [wind whistling] [wings thumping] [wind whistling] [slow pan flute music] ♪ Where am I ♪ ♪ Where are the things that I know ♪ ♪ Where's the world ♪ ♪ I saw a moment ago ♪ ♪ There should be mountains rocky and tall here ♪ ♪ But now there's almost nothing at all here ♪ ♪ Yet I feel small here ♪ ♪ Where am I ♪ ♪ How did the grass disappear ♪ ♪ Tell me why ♪ ♪ There's nothing green growing here ♪ ♪ There are only pillowy clouds ♪ ♪ As far as you can see ♪ ♪ I just ran over the hill ♪ ♪ And something happened to me ♪ ♪ I feel lighter than the air ♪ ♪ But I don't really care ♪ ♪ I just wanna know where ♪ ♪ Where am ♪ ♪ I ♪ Is that your bird? - [God] Yes, it is. - Can I touch him? I'm eight years old and I know how to touch him. - Go right ahead. - Mm, he's so soft and he flies real fast. - [God] Yes. - I had a hard time catching up with him, and I am pretty fast. - I've never seen a little boy as fast as you are. - Yeah? And look how high I ran. - [God] Amazing. - Yeah, it is amazing, isn't it? I ran right up into the sky. This is the sky, isn't it? - [God] Yes, it is, Michael. - That's my name, Michael. - I know. - How did you know my name? - [God] Oh, we've been waiting for you. - We, who? Where am I? - Well, for the moment, you're nowhere. But if you go through those gates, you'll certainly be somewhere. - It looks about the same in there as it does out here. [gentle ethereal music] ♪ Peace ♪ ♪ Work in peace ♪ ♪ Heavenly peace ♪ Angel of Peace? - Yes, yes, what it is, what is it? - Excuse me for disturbing you, sir, but the guardian angel. - Where, where? - Right here, sir. [playful tinkling music] - And where have you been? - Uh, just drifting, sir. Why, is something the matter, sir? - Is something the matter? Is something the matter? Heaven's in turmoil, it's being turned upside down by legions of angels frantically searching for Brother Samuel, and you ask me if something is the matter. Patience, I'm a peace loving soul. I like things to run smoothly, quietly, without fuss. - Oh, I quite agree, sir. - Well, then where is Brother Samuel? You're his guardian angel. He was not at choir practice or meditations. - Oh, he'll be back in time for evening prayers, sir. - Back, back from where? - Earth, sir. - Earth, Earth? What in Heaven's name is he doing on Earth? - Well, you see, sir, he- - He belongs in Heaven. Patience, this is outrageous. You've lost sight of your duties. - No, sir. - Well, you've certainly lost sight of Brother Samuel. - But sir, you see- - Will you never learn? You cannot allow these new souls to do whatever they wish. You can't indulge their every whim. - Yes, sir. - I'm aware of your warmth, your generosity, your eternal patience, Patience. But they have business to attend to. - Yes, sir. - The Lord's business, I might add. - You're right, sir, I must be a trial to you. You really should replace me, sir, as you so often said you would. - Replace you? Well, yes, I suppose I should. - Banish me, sir, to the north side of Heaven. The far north, that's the proper place for a feather brain like me. - The far north? Well, we don't have to go that far. I mean, we don't have to go to extremes, do we? Perhaps just one more chance. - One more chance? I don't think so, sir. I wouldn't do it if I were you, I'm obviously not well suited for - Will you please let me - This type of- - be the judge of that. - Yes, sir, of course, sir, sorry, sir. - Now there's a soul at the gates this very moment, a very difficult case. Matter of fact, he could use some of your special qualities. - Oh, how so, sir? - Well, it's a little boy, Patience. A very little boy. - A little boy, oh, I love little boys. The way they run and jump, the noises they make. Kaboom! [laughs] Yes sir, I'll go right away and meet him, sir. - Yes, do, do. But be firm, Patience, be firm. A gentle firmness, if you will. Boys thrive on discipline. - Yes, sir. - And remember, Patience, if I should ever again hear of a soul in your charge revisiting the Earth- - Yes, sir, it's the north side of Heaven, sir. The, the far north. You can depend on me, sir. [whimsical trumpet music] A little boy, kaboom! [whimsical horn music] ♪ Welcome to the heavenly ever after ♪ ♪ Where love and beauty fill the celestial day ♪ ♪ And truth is all pervading ♪ ♪ Like the cherubs serenading ♪ ♪ And wisdom's never fading away ♪ ♪ Be thankful for the heavenly ever after ♪ ♪ This holy city crowned with a starry night ♪ ♪ A lovely man suspended in time ♪ ♪ Where everything you see is divinely placed ♪ ♪ For your inspection ♪ ♪ Encased in their perfection ♪ ♪ And where forever you'll belong ♪ ♪ Welcome little angel ♪ ♪ Gabriel's my name ♪ ♪ On behalf of all of us I'm mighty glad you came ♪ ♪ You may have thought the Earth divine ♪ ♪ And though it's very nice ♪ ♪ This is really paradise ♪ ♪ Welcome little angel, we humbly offer prayer ♪ ♪ That you'll accept this golden key ♪ ♪ We've brought for you to wear ♪ ♪ Use the key to all our hearts ♪ ♪ That opens wide the door ♪ ♪ To the glorious future you will lead ♪ ♪ Forever ♪ ♪ Home ♪ ♪ And now little angel come to attention ♪ ♪ Always serving your needs are we ♪ ♪ For in keeping with tradition ♪ ♪ Brother Gabriel's ♪ ♪ About to speak ♪ - And furthermore, to be brief, in a word, it is perfectly clear. On the other hand, I'm sure I speak for everyone present when I say once again without hesitation that on this occasion, I am deeply moved. In retrospect, then, it is obvious to all, all things being equal, we are unanimous. - What did he say? - Shh. - In a word, I say then, being a man of few words, that we the welcoming committee bid you, bid you- - Welcome. - Welcome! ♪ Hallelu, hallelu, hallelu ♪ ♪ Are you listening ♪ ♪ Hallelu, wipe away that troubled frown ♪ ♪ And put on this cherry gown ♪ ♪ La la la la la la la la la la la la la la ♪ - Well, Michael, welcome. Welcome to Heaven. - Heaven, where God lives? - That's right, Michael. - Are you God? - Am, am I, am I, no. [all laughing] No, no, that's very nice of you, but I'm hardly. My name is Patience. I'm your guardian angel. - Angel, are they angels, too? - We're all angels. Cheroosh, Charmiel, Charmel, Cherubial, Crocial, Cupra, Doniel, Denyel, Elimez, Erya, Elijah, Ezra, Adam, Janiel, Jacob, and Raphael. And now, Michael, we're going on a chariot ride. - A chariot ride? How fast does it go? - Fast? It doesn't go at all. - Then how do you get anyplace? - You don't get anyplace. Anyplace comes to you. - A chariot! - Yep, it's the best way to see Heaven. And there's a lot to see. ♪ Welcome to the heavenly ever after ♪ ♪ Where everything is done for the common good ♪ ♪ Well where is your desire ♪ ♪ To assist an angel flyer ♪ ♪ On a harp or golden lire you could ♪ - And now, Michael, you and I are gonna sit back and relax while lots of wonderful things happen by. The halo shop, Brother. ♪ Be grateful for the heavenly ever after ♪ ♪ Where it's a pleasure leisurely just to roam ♪ ♪ And where each tiny space is designed ♪ ♪ To please each individual mind ♪ ♪ A place where a trumpet's sounding ♪ ♪ Announces joy abounding ♪ ♪ And where forever you'll ♪ ♪ Be ♪ ♪ Home ♪ ♪ Welcome little angel ♪ ♪ We'll do our level best ♪ ♪ To give your tiny spirit an eternal rest ♪ ♪ You may have worn a shepherd's cap ♪ ♪ Upon your tousled head ♪ ♪ But now you wear a shining halo ♪ ♪ There instead ♪ - That's a gentle reminder of what you are. - But I know what I am. I'm a shepherd. But I am, really! You don't believe me. - Of course we do, Michael, it's just that, well, you're in Heaven now, and that means you're an angel. - I am not an angel. I don't wanna be one. - How do you know, you haven't been one very long. I think you'll find it's very nice. - What's so nice about it? - Well, let's see, do you like to take baths? - No. - Well, there you are, angels never have to wash. - How come? - 'Cause they never get dirty. And even better than that, they never get sick or old. - Well, you're pretty old. - Well, I don't feel old. In fact, on a day like today, I could fly around forever. Say, now there's something no boy can do. Not even shepherds can fly. - You mean if I'm an, I can fly? Right now, can I? - After you get your wings and some flying lessons. That is, if you're interested. - Well, I don't know. I would like to fly just once, maybe. But then I have to go home. - Home, no, why would you wanna do a thing like that? - Well, I've got a lot to do. Sergeant's all alone with the sheep. - Yeah, well, let's talk about that after flying school, hmm, come on. Oops. - I don't like this gown. Here. - Well, Michael, in Heaven we all have to wear... Why don't you like it, it's becoming. - It's got no pockets. - Maybe we could put some pockets in later. Flying school, Brother. ♪ Be grateful for the heavenly ever after ♪ ♪ Where it's a pleasure leisurely just to roam ♪ ♪ And where each tiny space is designed ♪ ♪ To please each individual mind ♪ ♪ A place where a trumpet's sounding ♪ ♪ Announces joy abounding ♪ ♪ And where forever you'll ♪ ♪ Be ♪ ♪ Home ♪ - Ah, what a perfect day for a drive. But then of course it always is. - Not when it rains. - Oh, but it absolutely never does. - Well, everybody knows that you have to have rain in order to make things grow. Maybe that's why you don't have any grass or flowers. - But Michael, look at all the wonderful clouds and stars we have here. - That one looks a bit wispy around the edges, Brother. - Aha, yes, thank you for calling it to my attention, Brother. [tinkling music] - My goodness, put that back. - Hurry, hurry! - Oh, couldn't I have just one? There's lots left. - No, Michael, I'm sorry, but I'm afraid it's not mine to give you. - Whose is it then? - Well, it could be anybody's. You see, everybody on Earth has his own special star. - Gee, I didn't know that. I always thought they were just a decoration. When I get home, I'm gonna look for mine. - Home? - You know what you need here, Patience? - What's that, Michael? - Mountains and grass and trees. It's all different up here. I mean, who ever heard of a sky that wasn't blue? - Blue? - Mm-hmm, you could use some blue. ♪ Where is blue ♪ ♪ Where is blue ♪ ♪ Where is the blue that I always knew ♪ ♪ Where is the blue that's in Bethlehem's skies ♪ ♪ Where is the wonderful blue of my grandfather's eyes ♪ ♪ Where is green ♪ ♪ Where is green ♪ ♪ There is no sight I have ever seen ♪ - Green? ♪ Like summertime green ♪ ♪ Green as a palm tree that grows in the desert sand ♪ ♪ Green as the grape that I squash in my hand ♪ ♪ Green as a pea ♪ ♪ I love green ♪ ♪ Where is purple like a mountain is ♪ ♪ Where is red as an Arab moon ♪ ♪ Where is orange and yellow and brown ♪ ♪ Like the flowers that grow on the hills overlooking town ♪ - Uh-uh, duh, uh, mm-mm. ♪ I see gold ♪ ♪ Lots of gold ♪ ♪ Gold is so heavenly I am told ♪ ♪ But though it's shiny, the pleasure is tiny ♪ ♪ If there's nothing else to see ♪ ♪ Where's the color of the world ♪ ♪ Where's the color of the world ♪ ♪ That was paradise ♪ ♪ That was paradise ♪ ♪ To me ♪ - How's it coming, Patience? - Oh, fine, sir. Just fine, sir. Michael's been telling me about all the colors we don't have here. Did you ever realize we don't have any blue? - [Michael] Or green. - [Patience] Or green. - What are you talking about? - Uh, nothing, sir, nothing. We're just on our way to flying class, sir. - And why is Michael dressed that way? Where is his gown and his halo? - I'm no angel. - [Angel Of Peace] What's this, what's this? - Uh, he's very stubborn, sir, but boys are stubborn. It's part of their nature, sir. But he'll come around, sir. Won't you come around, Michael? You see, sir, he's, uh, coming. - Yes, I do indeed. - Wait until you see him after flying class, sir, he'll be a changed little fellow. Driver. I know boys, they all change once they've flown. Goodbye, sir. Wave goodbye, Michael. ♪ Where is purple like a mountain is ♪ ♪ Where is red as an Arab moon ♪ ♪ Where is orange and yellow and brown ♪ ♪ Like the flowers that grow on the hills overlooking town ♪ ♪ I see gold ♪ ♪ Lots of gold ♪ ♪ Gold is so heavenly I am told ♪ ♪ But though it's shiny, the pleasure is tiny ♪ ♪ If there's nothing else to see ♪ ♪ Where's the color of the world ♪ ♪ That was paradise ♪ ♪ That was paradise ♪ ♪ To me ♪ [wind whistling] - Ah, here we are. - Where? - Among makers of wings. Wings are wonderful things. Put on a pair and they'll fly you somewhere. That's why they're better than swings. [chuckling] [playful orchestral music] ♪ Flap, two, three, four ♪ ♪ Flap, two, three, four ♪ ♪ Flap, two, three, four ♪ ♪ Flap, two, three, four ♪ ♪ Keep your wings in good position ♪ ♪ Flying muscles in condition ♪ ♪ Flap, two, three, four ♪ ♪ Flap, two, three, four ♪ ♪ Try to relax, brothers ♪ ♪ Loosen up your backs, brothers ♪ ♪ Anyone can fly, brothers ♪ ♪ Anyone ♪ ♪ Can fly ♪ ♪ You can fly, you can fly ♪ ♪ It's a simple thing to fly ♪ ♪ If you only will spread your wings ♪ ♪ There's a whole lot of style just waiting ♪ ♪ So if your spirit is willing ♪ ♪ There's no reason for your hesitating ♪ ♪ You can fly, you can fly, in a moment you can fly ♪ ♪ As high as the heavens will allow ♪ ♪ Remember you're not earthbound now ♪ ♪ Think up, think up, think up ♪ ♪ Up and away you will [mumbles] ♪ ♪ Think up, think up ♪ ♪ All you need is a wing and a prayer ♪ ♪ You can fly, you can fly like a sparrow from the nest ♪ ♪ If you only will test your skill ♪ ♪ Why be stuck in the muck and mire ♪ ♪ When with just a little pluck ♪ ♪ You could go higher, ever higher ♪ ♪ Don't be shy, go and try ♪ ♪ The tenacity to fly will cheer you as you go by ♪ ♪ Say not only the birds but bees do ♪ ♪ It's so simple that tiny fleas do ♪ ♪ And though you're not bug or bird ♪ ♪ You can take my word, brother angels ♪ ♪ You can fly ♪ ♪ Flap, two, three, four ♪ ♪ Flap, two, three four ♪ ♪ Sister Aerial, I have brought ♪ ♪ A little angel to be taught ♪ ♪ May I leave him with you now ♪ ♪ I know you'll get him flying somehow ♪ - Have you ever flown before? - No, ma'am, but I can swim. - Swim, oh, all that splashing about. That's an awfully messy business just to keep your head above water. Well, flying is infinitely more graceful. And uplifting. - Are you sure I can do it? - Sure you can do it, anyone can do it. ♪ But you need a pair of wings ♪ ♪ A pair of golden wings ♪ ♪ For you to fly ♪ ♪ Through the eternal sky ♪ ♪ A pair of my golden wings ♪ - I want these. - Oh, no, Michael, those are just for display. They're much too large for you. But I have just the pair. I've been saving them for an eternity. They're fine as gossamer and the tips are dipped in sunshine. I'll get them for you. ♪ You can fly, you can fly ♪ ♪ It's an easy thing to fly ♪ ♪ All you need is a pair of wings ♪ - Here they are, just wait till you try these! - I'm ready, I'm ready to fly! - But Michael, with those wings? - I like 'em! - [giggling] All right. We'll get you up there somehow. ♪ You can fly, you can fly ♪ ♪ It's an easy thing to fly ♪ ♪ Though you never have flown before ♪ ♪ Like a seed you may need persuasion ♪ ♪ But remember every flower seed can rise to the occasion ♪ ♪ When it must make a thrust ♪ ♪ Through the earthly upper crust ♪ ♪ And adjust to the starry blue ♪ ♪ Well if seeds can ♪ ♪ So can you ♪ ♪ You've left bereft the world that you know ♪ ♪ Far below ♪ ♪ But now you'll reach new heights ♪ ♪ If you only will let yourself go ♪ ♪ You can fly ♪ ♪ You can fly, you can fly ♪ ♪ Like an eagle from the hill if you will ♪ ♪ Only make a start ♪ ♪ Though at first it may seem alarming ♪ ♪ The second time you're gliding ♪ ♪ Which is really rather charming ♪ ♪ Go on, soar, I implore ♪ ♪ Get your feet up off the floor ♪ ♪ Heaven's an open door ♪ ♪ It's as natural as infant sleep was ♪ ♪ It's as simple as guarding sheep was ♪ ♪ So though it seems rather new ♪ ♪ If you see it through ♪ ♪ Little angel you ♪ ♪ Can ♪ ♪ Fly ♪ - Dear God. ♪ Dear God ♪ - Dear God. ♪ Dear God ♪ - Dear God. ♪ Dear God ♪ - Go on, Michael, in Heaven, everyone's prayers are accompanied by the celestial choir. - Oh. Oh, God. ♪ Oh, God ♪ - Am I really an angel? Everyone here's like an angel but me. I can't fly. I tried, did you see? I don't belong here. There's nothing for me to do here. I think you made a mistake. So God- ♪ So God ♪ - Couldn't I please- ♪ Please ♪ - Go home? ♪ Home ♪ - I wonder if He heard it. - I'm sure He did. He hears everyone's prayers. - [Michael] Where did you come from? - I'm sorry you didn't get to fly. Maybe next time. - Oh, I could've flown, but shepherds don't have to fly. - No, of course they don't. - Anyway, God's gonna send me home, I'll bet. - Well, Michael, uh- - Well, not right away, maybe. But sometime when he's not too busy. - Well, I wouldn't worry about it because he is watching over you, and whatever he does will be the very best thing for you. - Well, I don't think he's done the very best thing for me so far. I mean, I miss home. - Where is your home, Michael? - Well, it's way down there someplace. It's smaller than I thought, I guess. You can't even see it. - I'd like to see it. - [Michael] Really? - Mm, very much. - But you can't. - Well, maybe I could if you describe it to me. - Okay, well, it's just a house, but it's a nice house. It's got a slatty roof with a big chimney with smoke coming out all the time. - All the time? - Uh-huh, that's what makes it so warm inside where my bed is. And under my bed I have a box. I save a lot of things I like in it, you should see. - I used to have a box like that a long, long time ago. So long ago I can hardly remember. What else you got in your house? - Well, there's my mother's table where she bakes a lot of things and where we eat. And there's my father's chair, he made it himself. He's a shepherd, but he makes things, too. And sometimes he sells them in Bethlehem, and I help him. - [Patience] Do you? - Yeah, and we take a tent. My mother made that. And we carry it to town. It's very heavy, but I'm strong. - Mm, you are strong. Must be all that fresh air and good food. - My mother's a good cook. - [Patience] Is she, so was mine. - [Michael] She was? - Mm, very good. She used to make a soup- - My mother bakes bread. - Brown bread? - [Michael] Uh-huh. - Oh. - What's the matter, Patience? - I love brown bread. At least, I used to love it. Hmm, it's funny. - [Michael] What? ♪ You remind me ♪ ♪ There was a time ♪ ♪ Some other place ♪ ♪ Some other world ♪ ♪ You remind me ♪ ♪ There was a youth ♪ ♪ Through which I was hurled ♪ ♪ Childhood days ♪ ♪ Lost in a haze somewhere in my mind ♪ ♪ Hours I spent ♪ ♪ I rarely can find again ♪ ♪ Then ♪ ♪ There was another life ♪ ♪ Life I thought sublime ♪ ♪ Once upon another time ♪ ♪ Once oh so long ago ♪ ♪ That it seems a pale, ancient fairy tale ♪ ♪ There was a joy I knew ♪ ♪ Trees I used to climb ♪ ♪ Once upon another time ♪ ♪ And leafy boughs where I'd go ♪ ♪ To hide away ♪ ♪ I found the perfect place in the past ♪ ♪ Oh, do I miss my past ♪ ♪ No lingering [mumbles] ♪ ♪ Run wild ♪ ♪ Yet little angel we speak ♪ ♪ And suddenly I see me before my prime ♪ ♪ And for a moment ♪ ♪ Though I live in paradise ♪ ♪ I close my eyes and I'm ♪ ♪ Lost in another time ♪ ♪ I found a perfect bliss at last ♪ ♪ With the blur of my past ♪ ♪ No lingering [mumbles] ♪ ♪ Yet now and then I hear ♪ ♪ Words with all the sound ♪ ♪ Visions all in pantomime ♪ ♪ And for a moment ♪ ♪ Though I'm in paradise ♪ ♪ I close my eyes and I'm ♪ ♪ Lost ♪ ♪ In another time ♪ - Patience? - Hmm? - Patience? - What's the matter? - I forgot the wood. - The what? - The wood. Oh, Patience, I got a lot to do. My sheep, I gotta round 'em up. Do you know how many we have? - Six. - Six, why there's a hundred! And soon there'll be more with the ewes. Oh, don't you see, Patience, I'm needed at home. Nobody needs me here. - Not needed here? But Michael, that's simply not true. By Jupiter, maybe that's it, come on. - Where are we going now? - We're going to see the Celestial Sycopomp. We're gonna find you something to do. Not needed, huh, we'll see. - [Celestial Sycopomp] Attention! Attention, all lost souls. The Celestial Sycopomp will now give audience. Take your place in line. - Who's the Celestial Sycopomp? - Oh, he's a man of details. And a man of position. In fact, he's a man who knows the details of every position available here in Heaven. You just wait here in line. And if he asks you any questions, you speak right up. Sometimes he looks very stern, but he's really a very nice fella. - Where you going? - Well, I won't be far. I already have a job, you know. I'm your guardian angel. - Who are you? - [Michael] Michael. - Michael, my name is Democritus. What's the matter, Michael? - [Michael] I'm scared, I wish I was home. - Scared, a big fellow like you? - [Celestial Sycopomp] Attention, attention! Today we have openings for moon dusters, planet pushers, stardust sifters, cloud clippers, and comet shooters. We also have positions for plenty of placidly pious purveyors of pristinely purifying prayers as well as several solicitor saviors and a soulful sample of simple sills to slide skillfully over the sultry while singing a selection of sweetly swaying psalms. - We're the only ones left. - So we are. - Have you ever met the Sycopomp? - No, I've never had the pleasure. - Patience says sometimes he ask you questions. - Does he? Well, perhaps we'll have some surprising answers for him. - Name? Ah, Democritus. Previous occupation, philosopher. - You've heard of me? - Why yes indeed, sir, your reputation precedes you. I gather that nothing we've suggested appeals to you. - Nothing? - Oh, we could use a wind wafter. - A wind wafter? - No, well, perhaps you would prefer to spend your time with the ancient prophets, Plato and Aristotle. - Plato and Aristotle here? Ah, but there's no point, you see, no point in making any plans at all, as I expect to be awake at any moment. - Awake, but Democritus, you seem perfectly awake to me. - Seem, ah, but things are not always what they seem, are they? Now if I were not a man of logic and reason, I might conclude from the nature of the landscape, the activity of the citizens and their general appearance, that this was Heaven. Wouldn't you conclude that, my boy? - Yes, sir. - Yet has any man ever really seen Heaven, hmm? No. Smelled it, no. Touched it, I think not. And what cannot be seen, smelled, or touched must logically be only a figment of the imagination. Ergo, I must conclude I am asleep and you are all part of a dream. Don't worry, my boy, you'll be home soon. - Are you sure? - Sure, I'm absolutely certain. ♪ A man as logical as I ♪ ♪ Cannot as hard as I may try ♪ ♪ Accept the proposition that you are here ♪ ♪ I therefore state emphatically ♪ ♪ Though I'm sure undiplomatically ♪ ♪ That I created you ♪ ♪ No, don't look shocked, it's true ♪ ♪ And in a moment you will disappear ♪ ♪ For you're not real at all, you know ♪ ♪ You're merely in my dream ♪ ♪ You pinch yourself and hurt yourself ♪ ♪ But it's me that makes you scream ♪ ♪ Be grateful that I ate well ♪ ♪ For you realize, of course ♪ ♪ That if I had indigestion ♪ ♪ You might've been a horse ♪ ♪ Or if not that, a goat or bat ♪ ♪ A monkey or a pup ♪ ♪ So just behave yourself, my friend ♪ ♪ Or you may just wake me up ♪ ♪ And little fellow, you'll be gone ♪ ♪ Until the next time when ♪ ♪ My chance to dream you up again ♪ So you see, my sychopompous friend, you are but a bubble. ♪ Just a minute, just a minute, just minute ♪ ♪ Wait a moment, we have facts and figures to prove ♪ ♪ That you are [mumbles] ♪ ♪ The arguments counterbalance all that ♪ ♪ You have concluded true ♪ ♪ For example, here's a list of all souls ♪ ♪ That have arrived this year ♪ ♪ Do you think that if you woke they too ♪ ♪ Would also disappear ♪ ♪ You can feel 'em, you can see 'em, you can smell 'em ♪ ♪ They all will not accept the fact that's ♪ ♪ Your sense of smell ♪ ♪ I am not convinced by all your arguments I find ♪ ♪ I am just amazed at the complexities of my mind ♪ ♪ For you're not real at all ♪ ♪ My first hypothesis was true ♪ ♪ And when at least I wake for tea ♪ ♪ That will be the end of you ♪ ♪ I'll miss you, yes indeed I will ♪ ♪ Until the next time when ♪ ♪ I chance ♪ ♪ To dream you up again ♪ ♪ Just a minute, you're diluted ♪ ♪ You've excluded every other point of view but yours ♪ - Congratulations, by Heavens, your argument is irrefutable. You're reputation doesn't do you justice by half. - Well, I... You know, he's not such a bad sort after all, is he? - Uh, but sir, now that you've negated us all, are you happy? - I am transported. I tell you, if I could win one logical argument every day, I should be in Heaven. - You would, excellent, excellent, it's all settled then. Democritus, our experience has shown us that everyone has his own idea of Heaven, and who am I to deprive you of yours? Go forth, brother, and find your own way. Goodbye, Democritus. - Goodbye, Sycopomp. Goodbye, Michael. - When do I go home? - Home, oh, I shouldn't be in such a terrible rush to go home if I were you. You know, this place has excellent possibilities. In fact, another guy and I thought the whole thing up. ♪ For you're not real at all ♪ ♪ My first hypothesis was true ♪ ♪ And when at last I wake for tea ♪ ♪ That'll be the end of you ♪ ♪ I'll miss you, yes indeed I will ♪ ♪ Until the next time when ♪ ♪ I chance to ♪ ♪ Dream you up again ♪ - Dear, no sniffing. - [Michael] Yes, sir. - Name? - Michael. - Previous occupation? - You have any jobs for boys? - For boys? - Boys? - Boys in Heaven? [chuckling] There are no boys in Heaven. - Yes there are, sir. I mean, well, you see, I mean, I am a boy, I can push a planet. - Push a planet? - Impossible. - Only angels push planets, Michael. - Well, I could sift stardust or wind waft or clip clouds. - Yes, you could if you were an angel. - [Michael] Then what can I do? - Well, I'm sure I haven't the slightest idea if you're really a boy. You see, I only have jobs for angels here. - I knew, I knew it, I told them so. I told Patience, my guardian angel said you'd find something for me to do here. But I knew you wouldn't. I don't belong here. Here, here's your old key. Doesn't open anything anyway, take it! [gentle harp music] - Thank you, Michael. - Someone will be very grateful, Michael. - Yes, sir. - Hi. - Hmm. - Hmm, what do you mean, hmm? - Just hmm, that's all. - What are you doing? - Nothing. Just nothing. - Are you really? Yeah, that sounds like fun. I haven't done that in years. Mind if I join you? ♪ What do you do ♪ ♪ When you say you're doing nothing ♪ ♪ Tell me, please ♪ ♪ Do you sneeze ♪ ♪ What do you do ♪ ♪ Do you like to flap your arms in the breeze ♪ ♪ 'Cause I'd really like to know ♪ ♪ Do you sit on your hands ♪ ♪ With your feet on the wall ♪ ♪ Or do you walk on your toes ♪ ♪ And think that you're five miles tall ♪ ♪ Nothing at all, oh, what do you do ♪ ♪ When you say you're doing nothing ♪ ♪ Do you stand on your head ♪ ♪ What do you do ♪ ♪ Do you like to bounce around on your bed ♪ ♪ Do you have somewhere you go ♪ ♪ Some secret hiding place ♪ ♪ Where dreams can all come true ♪ ♪ When you say you're doing nothing ♪ ♪ Tell me just ♪ ♪ What do you do ♪ - Ha! ♪ What do you do ♪ ♪ When you say you're doing nothing ♪ ♪ Do you swing on the door ♪ ♪ What do you do ♪ ♪ Do you like to crawl around on the floor ♪ ♪ Do you lie beneath a tree ♪ ♪ And pretend you're a king ♪ ♪ Looking royal and wise ♪ ♪ Or do you sit on a rock ♪ ♪ And try catching butterflies ♪ ♪ Oh, that's no surprise ♪ ♪ What do you do ♪ ♪ When you say you're doing nothing ♪ ♪ Do you laugh ♪ ♪ Do you cry, what do you do ♪ ♪ Say, I'll bet you count the clouds in the sky ♪ ♪ One, two ♪ ♪ But most of all I'd like to know ♪ ♪ That secret place you go ♪ ♪ When someone's calling you ♪ ♪ When you say you're doing nothing ♪ ♪ Tell me ♪ ♪ What do you do ♪ ♪ What on Earth do you do ♪ ♪ What ♪ ♪ Huh ♪ ♪ Hmm ♪ Michael, it's time you and I had a serious talk. Michael, sometimes the truth is a very hard thing to face. But until we do face it, look it squarely in the eye, we can't deal with it. And the truth of the matter is, Michael, the truth, you know, down deep in your heart, is that you're not a little boy anymore. - But I am. - Michael, you're an angel. And you're always going to be an angel. And the moment that you decide to accept that fact, you'll find a place for yourself here in Heaven, just as you found a place for yourself at home. - But I'd be a terrible angel. - Oh, but you could be a wonderful angel. Were you always a good shepherd? - Not when I was little. - No, of course not, you see, you had to grow up to the job. And no one had to tell you when you were grown up, you just knew it, right? - Uh-huh. - Well, it's the same thing with being an angel. At first your halo slips a little and you trip over your gown and you have trouble flying, then one day something happens. You do something you know is right, and it pleases you inside somewhere, and right then you know you're a grown-up, full-fledged angel. Oh, Michael, I have great faith in you, and I'll do anything to help you. - You will, anything? - Anything, just try me. - Okay, let me go home. - Home? - Oh, just for a minute, please? - Oh, well, you, uh, Michael, I, I can't. - Ah, I knew it. - No, you don't understand, I can't. I'm not allowed to, angels can never- - Please, I've got to. You see, I left something there under my bed, my box. If I've gotta be an angel, at least let me have my box. My things are in it, my butterfly and Sergeant's collar and, well, everything. Well, this is Heaven, isn't it? - Well, yes, it is. - And you're supposed to be happy in Heaven, aren't you? - Well, that's true, yes, and you will be if, if, if you- - Please? - All right. - Hooray! - But you must never, never, ever ask me to go home again. - I won't. - All right. But hurry back, we need you. - I will, I promise. [lips smacking] Mother, Father, Sergeant, I'm coming home! - Godspeed, little angel. ♪ We speak and suddenly ♪ ♪ I see me before my prime ♪ ♪ And for a moment ♪ ♪ Though I'm in paradise ♪ Yes, sir? I know, sir, but he wanted it so much. [somber orchestral music] [pan flute music] [magical tinkling music] - Where is that boy? I sent him for wood and he disappears. - I'm here, Father, here I am. - You're the father, you talk to him. - Mother, I've been in Heaven. They let me come for a minute. - He's eight years old, old enough to have some responsibility. - Father, you should see what it looks like up there. It's all different. The sky's not even blue. - Michael! - Mother, it is all different up there. - How long has he been gone, Mother? - Oh, only a few moments. - Wait till I get my hands on him. He shouldn't keep his mother waiting. - They don't hear me. Mama? - Oh. - Mama, I'm sorry I didn't get the wood. - What is it, Mother? - I don't know, a warm feeling here. - You work too hard, you oughta take care of yourself. - Mama, I'm gonna get my box. Patience said I could have my box. - Well? - It's gone. [gentle orchestral music] ♪ This box I have here ♪ ♪ I made from scraps of wood ♪ ♪ I'm not a carpenter ♪ ♪ But I did what I could ♪ ♪ And anyway, it's not the box ♪ ♪ In which I have all my pride ♪ ♪ Oh, no, it's what I'm keeping ♪ ♪ Inside ♪ ♪ I have saved two white stones ♪ ♪ Whiter than any I have seen ♪ ♪ Found in a patch of emerald green ♪ ♪ Two white stones have I ♪ ♪ I have saved three blue eggs ♪ ♪ Bluer than any summer sky ♪ ♪ Found in a robin's basket of brown ♪ ♪ Three blue eggs have I ♪ ♪ And here's a butterfly, orange and black ♪ ♪ Who once went fluttering free ♪ ♪ Him I saved along with the feather ♪ ♪ A starling dropped from a tree ♪ ♪ All these things I love best ♪ ♪ I have kept in this old chest ♪ ♪ Sorted and counted hundreds of nights ♪ ♪ They all have given me a thousand delights ♪ ♪ Who can say how much ♪ ♪ They are worth ♪ ♪ For they are the miracles ♪ ♪ Of ♪ ♪ The Earth ♪ - [Mother] Michael, Michael? - [Father] Well? - [Mother] I don't see him. Oh, well, where could he go? - Your son, he could be anywhere. ♪ And here's a butterfly orange and black ♪ ♪ Who once went fluttering free ♪ ♪ Him I saved along with the feather ♪ ♪ A starling dropped from a tree ♪ - I baked him some birthday cookies. I'll put them in his box. - Cookies. He worries you to death and you bake him cookies. - Well, it's not there. Oh, he, he must have it with him. - Now you know why he's not here. He's off with his treasures someplace. I wonder what he'll find this time ♪ All these things ♪ ♪ I love best ♪ Mother, Father, I gotta go now, all right? [somber orchestral music] Listen, I almost flew! [wind whistling] Patience? Patience? Patience? Patience? Patience, I'm back! I got my box! Patience, I'm back! See, I got my box. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ - Patience. Oh, I thought you were Patience. - Shh, the Lord. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ah, ah ♪ - [God] I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all in Heaven and Earth. ♪ Ah, ah, ah ♪ - [God] For unto you this day is to be born in Bethlehem a savior which is Christ the Lord. ♪ Hallelujah, oh rejoice ♪ ♪ Sing now as with one voice ♪ ♪ Hallelu, a son will be born ♪ ♪ To God ♪ - Brother and sister angels, Cherubim and Seraphim, let us prepare gifts for the holy infant. ♪ Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah ♪ ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ - Have you seen Patience? Where's Patience? - Patience isn't here, Michael. - Isn't here, why? He's my guardian angel. - Well, I'm afraid he isn't any longer, Michael. - But I need him. He was helping me become an angel. - [Angel of Peace] He wasn't helping you by letting you return to Earth. - But I won't ask to go home again. - I certainly hope not, Michael, because you have a lot to do now. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ - You hear that, Michael? All of Heaven is preparing gifts. You must decide what you're going to give to the Christ child. - Patience could help me decide. - There comes a time, Michael, when we must learn to make our own decisions. It's part of becoming an angel. No one can tell you what to give. That is something you must decide for yourself. - But what could I ever give that would be good enough for the son of God? ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la ♪ ♪ La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la ♪ ♪ Gifts made, gifts made, gifts for the child ♪ ♪ I bring you good tidings, good kinds of great joy ♪ ♪ Which shall be to all ♪ ♪ In Heaven and Earth ♪ ♪ For unto you this day is born a savior ♪ ♪ A baby in a manager, Christ the Lord ♪ - Hello, Michael. Have you got your gift yet? - No, not yet. - It should be the most wonderful thing you can think of. - Yes, sir, I know, I'm still thinking. ♪ For the child ♪ ♪ I'm bringing you good tidings ♪ ♪ Good tidings for the child ♪ ♪ With Heaven and son ♪ ♪ For God has come a newborn king ♪ ♪ Of Heaven and Earth is born tonight ♪ ♪ Gifts, great gifts, great gifts for the child ♪ - Oh, I can't think of anything to give. I can't. If Patience were here, he'd know. It has to be something wonderful. And the only wonderful thing I have is my box. And I couldn't give that. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ I have made a color ♪ ♪ Never seen before ♪ ♪ It will be a color ♪ ♪ For the eyes of the divine ♪ ♪ Only he will see my hue ♪ ♪ Only Christ alone will view ♪ ♪ This color from the beyond ♪ ♪ The sky and Earth ♪ ♪ May it bring him pleasure ♪ ♪ From ♪ ♪ His birth ♪ ♪ I have fashioned music ♪ ♪ Never heard before ♪ ♪ Song that may be listened to ♪ ♪ By only the ♪ ♪ Divine ♪ ♪ Song by neither ♪ ♪ Man nor bird ♪ ♪ Only Christ will know ♪ ♪ The words ♪ ♪ To melody beyond ♪ ♪ Sky and Earth ♪ ♪ May it bring him pleasure ♪ ♪ From ♪ ♪ His birth ♪ ♪ Hallelujah, oh, rejoice ♪ ♪ Sing now as with ♪ ♪ One voice ♪ ♪ Hallelu, a son ♪ ♪ Will be born tonight ♪ ♪ I have made a vision ♪ ♪ Never dreamed before ♪ ♪ It will be a vision ♪ ♪ For the mind ♪ ♪ Of the divine ♪ ♪ Only he will view the sight ♪ ♪ Only Christ will see the light ♪ ♪ This vision from beyond ♪ ♪ Sky and Earth ♪ ♪ May it bring him pleasure ♪ ♪ From ♪ ♪ His birth ♪ ♪ Color ♪ ♪ Music ♪ ♪ Vision ♪ ♪ May they bring him pleasure ♪ ♪ From ♪ ♪ His ♪ ♪ Birth ♪ ♪ Ooh ♪ ♪ I have saved two white stones ♪ ♪ Whiter than any I have seen ♪ ♪ Found in a patch of emerald green ♪ ♪ Two white stones have I ♪ ♪ I have saved ♪ ♪ Three blue eggs ♪ ♪ Bluer than any summer sky ♪ ♪ Found in a robin's basket of brown ♪ ♪ Three blue eggs have I ♪ - [Patience] And then one day, something happens. You do something you know is right, and it pleases you inside somewhere. And right then, you know, you're a grown-up, full-fledged angel. ♪ All these things I love best ♪ ♪ I have kept in this old chest ♪ ♪ Sorted and counted hundreds of nights ♪ ♪ They all have given me a thousand delights ♪ ♪ Who can say how much they are worth ♪ ♪ For they are the miracles ♪ ♪ Of ♪ ♪ The Earth ♪ I will, I'll give him my box. - Well, has our little angel decided on a gift for the Holy infant? - Uh-huh, I'm gonna give him my box. - A box, well, Michael, it's, it's very nice, but I, I don't think it's suitable. Not really suitable, not in keeping with the occasion. - I made it myself. - Yes, but I'm afraid it won't do. It won't do at all, Michael. Look at it this way, what would it look like beside all those other magnificent gifts? - But, but he'll like it, I know he will. And you said I had to make my own decision. Well, I made it, and I know it's right. - Well, perhaps he won't notice. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ - Look at all those wonderful gifts. He was right. My box is ugly. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh ♪ - Patience, where have you been? I've been looking all over for you. - Oh, I've just been away for a while, but I'm back now. - Oh, Patience, my box, it's so ugly. It's not worth anything. - Michael, no gift is worthless if it comes from the heart. - My children, you please me. Never have the Heavens seen such splendor. Your gifts will delight my son. You have done well. There is one gift, though, that stands alone and apart from all the others. Though he would seek to hide it from me, he cannot. It is the gift of our littlest angel. Its contents so dear to this tiny soul, are the miracles of Earth and men. And my son is to be born king of both. These things he too will know and love and cherish, and regretfully leave behind when his task on Earth is done. - Oh, Michael, I'm so proud of you. You've become quite an angel. [gentle tinkling music] - Pockets! - Shh. - Come here, Michael, and stand by me. [grandiose horns music] This box shall rise and span the Heavens until it comes to rest and shines its light over a stable in Bethlehem, where this night, Jesus is to be born of Mary. And it is to be hoped that the light from this star will be reflected forever in the hearts of mankind, mankind whose earthly eyes blinded by its splendor will never know that the gift of the littlest angel is what they will call the shining star of Bethlehem. [grandiose horns music] ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪