Transcript for Same But Different: A True New Zealand Love Story (2019) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Someone needs to stop Clearway Law. Public shouldn't leave reviews for lawyers. ﻿I'm guessing that didn't say pots ﻿ ﻿despite being a bit challenged in areas , I survived in the world, doing things my way ﻿ ﻿life hand out just as it was supposed to, I guess ﻿ ﻿my gift of the gab got me a long way ﻿ ﻿and now I'm a single working mom. ﻿ ﻿Apparently, it's the new black. ﻿ ﻿Kisses ﻿ ﻿Bye, mom. ﻿ ﻿No, remember I want you to stay in the shallow end ﻿ ﻿because contrary to your own belief, you are not Aquaman. ﻿ ﻿I am Aquaman. ﻿ ﻿My kids are happy. ﻿ ﻿I help others when I can. ﻿-Hey, how are you? -What's it gonna be? ﻿- Its your favourite. - Boiler? ﻿thats it. ﻿And I even get time to focus on my passion. ﻿No. ﻿I could never forgive myself if I came back. ﻿Could be different this time. ﻿I promise ﻿You get out of here. ﻿Bravo Rachel, Bravo. ﻿I got to say, life's pretty good right now. ﻿Namaste. ﻿Namaste, my sister. ﻿How did you know it was me calling? ﻿Have my spirit guides connected with you already? ﻿Dude, I've got a smartphone. It shows me who's calling. ﻿1 just called to remind you that tomorrow night will be experiencing the new moon ﻿which is all about bringing in the new. ﻿And I think you know what that means ﻿ ﻿23 year old werewolves from team Jacob are out of the brawl. ﻿ ﻿It means that tomorrow night is the perfect time for you to go out to meet that special someone. ﻿ ﻿Energetically. The conditions are perfect for courting ﻿ ﻿Courting? What century are you living in? ﻿ ﻿I am not on the hunt for a knight in shining armour right now. ﻿ ﻿Oh kakapos. You're not. ﻿ ﻿Rachel. It's been three years. ﻿ ﻿I am really surprised this shit hasn't dried up and fallen off already. ﻿ ﻿Look, it's the last thing on my mind. ﻿ ﻿I'm just too busy for that kind of stuff right now. ﻿ ﻿And if it happens it will happen when it's meant to. ﻿ ﻿Yes, the universe will provide love and light, love and light, love and light. ﻿ ﻿But you could be a little bit proactive. ﻿ ﻿Honey, I am trying to meditate in here and I am losing my connection. Shh ﻿ ﻿I don't care what you're doing. ﻿ ﻿you've really got to change that incense sam, it's giving you bipolar. ﻿ ﻿All I'm saying, let's just try and make an effort, ok. ﻿ ﻿You cant be the person on the invitation forever can you? No! ﻿Now I've got to go but I love you. All right. Love and light. Muah. ﻿Really Sorry about that lets get back into it. ﻿ ﻿Oh, yeah. So we're thinking something like small and boutique ﻿ ﻿just a few family and friends maybe on Waikiki island? ﻿ ﻿Oh, yes, please. The kids and I we love Waikiki. ﻿ ﻿And our moms will love it too. ﻿ ﻿Oh and Margot's probably got her whole outfit planned out already. ﻿ ﻿Oh, these are bloody good. ﻿ ﻿Did you see that. ﻿ ﻿See what? ﻿ ﻿That guy is totally checking you out. ﻿ ﻿- He's like 12, - even they look legal just. ﻿ ﻿OK, listen to me, I am all about community service ﻿ ﻿all right, but boys who look like they need a ride to school the next day do not really appeal to me. ﻿ ﻿And there is no way that I am going to be all up in that shit. ﻿ ﻿Morning, sexy. Did you have fun last night? ﻿ ﻿Hey, look, I'd love to stay in play all day, but I've actually got a nine o'clock lecture ﻿ ﻿you think you can give me a ride in. ﻿ ﻿Come on, I actually do need to go. ﻿ ﻿So when do we get to do this again? ﻿ ﻿Yeah, I'm I'm really busy at the moment, you know, with my kids and ﻿ ﻿11 love kids. I could bring my Xbox over with. ﻿ ﻿Well, you know ﻿ ﻿but I’ve got your number so, text you later. Ok? ﻿ ﻿OK. ﻿ ﻿Alright team ﻿ ﻿I want to hear from everyone, I want to hear how you week's been ﻿ ﻿we're going to talk about numbers, obviously ﻿ ﻿and this line in particular in what's been good, what's been bad? ﻿ ﻿Sadly, good afternoon, Rachel. ﻿ ﻿Morning, Terri. ﻿ ﻿It's Tere, just like it was yesterday. ﻿ ﻿Right ﻿ ﻿Morning, Terri. ﻿Right, where was I? ﻿Alex is going to talk us through a really exciting opportunity ﻿that we have on board at the moment with some real estate agents down the road. ﻿ ﻿This is something that I'm going to want to roll out with everyone. ﻿ ﻿So it's going to be... ﻿ ﻿Can you take the call outside Rachel! ﻿ ﻿Just the call, just take it outside? ﻿ ﻿Thank you. Thank you ﻿ ﻿Right, now we've got that out of the way ﻿ ﻿Mom, I'm in a meeting. ﻿ ﻿Well, why have you got your phone on, you silly girl? ﻿ ﻿What is it , mom ﻿ ﻿Look, I've just seen on the Facefeed that ﻿ ﻿that we filmed you are in just got into a film festival. ﻿ ﻿Really? Which one? ﻿ ﻿Oh, I can't remember the name. ﻿ ﻿I was in SPQR with Sophie at the time ﻿ ﻿god they do a great... ﻿ ﻿Was it Venice Was it Cannes was it Sundance? ﻿ ﻿Hold on, I'm just trying Oh here it is at selected for the Aroha Maori Film Festival. ﻿ ﻿Isn't that wonderful? ﻿ ﻿Rachel. Rachel, are you there? ﻿ ﻿Yeah. ﻿ ﻿Just ﻿ ﻿so you gonna to go? ﻿ ﻿Yeah. No mom, it doesn't really sound that inviting. ﻿ ﻿Why not? ﻿ ﻿Becuz I've never heard of it Mom ﻿and it's not exactly like I'm going to meet Martin Scorsese there am I? ﻿ ﻿Don't be such a snob. Rachel ﻿ ﻿don't you want to get in touch with your Maori side? ﻿ ﻿You are one 16th, you know. ﻿ ﻿Anyway, It'll be fun. I'll go with you. ﻿ ﻿We could experience our culture together. ﻿ ﻿Yeah, yeah, yeah. ﻿ ﻿I will set up an appointment and ﻿ ﻿and I will speak to you about that soon. ﻿ ﻿OK. All right. And bye. ﻿ ﻿Clients? ﻿ ﻿Yeah. Yeah. They're overseas at the moment. ﻿ ﻿And the time zone is really different in the north...pole. ﻿ ﻿I see the film you're in ﻿ ﻿was selected for the Araham Maori Film Festival. ﻿ ﻿Have you been speaking to my mother? ﻿ ﻿My filmmaker friends going too. Her film was also selected. ﻿ ﻿You should meet her. ﻿ ﻿No, I don't I don't really think I'm going to be going. ﻿ ﻿﻿Really? ﻿Seems a shame to miss the opportunity to meet all those indigenous filmmakers ﻿ ﻿my friend, Samoan. ﻿ ﻿I guess I'll find her near the food table, ain't 1? ﻿ ﻿Cause they love food. ﻿ ﻿Don't miss meeting again. ﻿ ﻿So I was with my friend, all right. ﻿ ﻿We were playing. So much fun. ﻿ ﻿And anyway, she just kept on bragging about all her really cool birthday party. ﻿ ﻿And I was like, well, mine was cool as well. ﻿ ﻿We have all the ingredients for burgers, but not for pizza. ﻿ ﻿What does it matter? We just go buy it. ﻿ ﻿- No. - Buying it. It's way easier. ﻿ ﻿- No, but we're not going to - P-I-Z-Z-A pizza. ﻿ ﻿and we're not going out to the shop at this time. ﻿ ﻿Indie, what are you doing? ﻿ ﻿I'm waiting for Felix to get out to the bathroom. ﻿ ﻿﻿OK, well, why don't you go set the table, sweetie? ﻿﻿OK, Ma'am. What's for dinner? ﻿﻿- It's your favourite. It's baked beans on toast. - Yes. ﻿﻿Hey, Indie, what did you do to mommy while I was asleep? ﻿﻿I was fixing your makeup. It was not that good. ﻿You're welcome. By the way ﻿do you seriously think you're going to find a boyfriend looking like that? ﻿What are you doing here ? ﻿ ﻿You don't reply, so 1 thought I'd just come over. ﻿My kids are inside asleep ﻿We just have to be quiet. ﻿Look, Rob, I can’t let you in here when my kids are here. ﻿Do you want to do it in your car. I love tight places. ﻿OK this weekend? ﻿This weekend sounds perfect ﻿You are so hot ﻿- Shhh the kids - sorry ﻿I can try and hold off until then ﻿so we can be up all night baby. ﻿Breathe in. And out. And in, breathe out ﻿Let go of anything ﻿bad relationships, past relationships ﻿ ﻿current relationships, marriages ﻿ ﻿divorces, custody battles ﻿ ﻿prenuptial agreements, you didn't sign. ﻿ ﻿- The 12 year old made a midnight bed call last night. - What? ﻿ ﻿And inhale, exhale ﻿ ﻿fold over your child bearing hips that bore the four children. ﻿ ﻿He insisted on having and subsequently ended your career. ﻿ ﻿Inhale, stretch out your spine ﻿ ﻿because you have one unlike him. ﻿ ﻿- And down - Did you do it in the house? ﻿ ﻿You crazy? I didn't even let him inside ﻿ ﻿Bear the pain, be the pain, let him feel it too. ﻿ ﻿-Where did you shag him? -I didn't. ﻿ ﻿-Is he good in the sac? -I can't remember, I was too wasted. ﻿ ﻿All I can remember is that he can't even grow facial hair. ﻿ ﻿And inhale. Reach up ﻿ ﻿Reach like you're reaching for his salary. ﻿ ﻿Reach..Reach.. Reach ﻿ ﻿Oh, OK, relax ﻿ ﻿because all the efforts in the world will be in vain. ﻿ ﻿because you never get a single cent. ﻿ ﻿- Hi. - What can I do for you? ﻿ ﻿I'll have an English breakfast tea loose leaf. ﻿ ﻿And do you have a cow's milk alternative. ﻿ ﻿We've got soy and almond ﻿hope you are not allergic to nuts. ﻿I'll take the Soy. ﻿ ﻿Don't you need a name for that order? ﻿Tea or a milf Tea or a milf, milf? Enjoy! ﻿ ﻿All right, monkeys, let's go let's go get some dinner. ﻿- Oh, Indie . - Mom, what does ROB spell? ﻿Nothing, nothing, sweetie. Don't even answer it. Just just. ﻿-Hello -Hello? ﻿Rachel? Is that you? ﻿Yeah, I'm going to have to give you a call back when I'm in the office. ﻿Hey, I was actually wondering ﻿do you want to meet up early on Saturday? ﻿you know get warmed up for the big event? ﻿A E I O U Tena koe (Maori language) greetings to one person. ﻿-Look Mom it's mama, hi mama. -Tena korua, Greetings to two people. ﻿Hello darling. How are you? ﻿I'm good, we are just talking to my friend ROB. ﻿- Mom. Hi. I'm going to have tojust call you back, - OK. ﻿was just wondering whether you thought any more about the film festival. ﻿You know, the maori one ﻿-so i need to pick you up early Saturday morning. -Yes. ﻿Yes. That would be amazing. Yes. Count me in. ﻿-1 am looking forward to it. - It's great news. ﻿Ok, great. Listen, that's really great mom. Yep. ﻿And you'll need to bring a blanket and pillow. ﻿Rob, I will have to reschedule our appointment for a later date. ﻿OK, talk to you soon. Bye. ﻿Have we hit menopause, mom? ﻿No, mom, I've changed my mind. Let's get out of here. ﻿Don't be silly, it'll bejust wonderful. ﻿Oh, come on, we'll be late for the Powhiri . ﻿For the what? ﻿oh, could you get my bedding from the back, please? ﻿Your what? ﻿Oh, Kia ora wai. ﻿\Ne talked on the telephone ﻿Kia ora, Kia ora werawu Yes, I am Margot, the T is silent, very French. ﻿Oh and this is my tamahine, Rachel ﻿Kia ora Rachel Kia ora, Rachel Kia ora Rachel. ﻿We're going in for the Powhiri now. ﻿Oh, Lovely. Thank you. ﻿Oh god, isn't this just wonderful? ﻿I feel a real sense of Mana running right through my tinana. ﻿What running through your what mom? ﻿how are you speaking Maori right now. ﻿It's Maori, Rachel. ﻿you are As bad as those bloody newsreaders ﻿butchering our indigenous language like that. ﻿Just come sit here. Sonida men sit at the front. ﻿Oh, thank you, dear. I wouldn't want to do the wrong thing. ﻿Is there anything else I need to know? ﻿■ qs Ilin ﻿Never walk across the front ﻿when the speakers giving us Whaikdrero ﻿Cuz it is bad luck. ﻿Speaking maori. ﻿Hine(Maori for young woman ﻿Kia ora? ﻿This row is for the men only. ﻿speaking Maori ﻿singing in Maori ﻿Try not to worry about it, Rachel ﻿how are you to know whether to kiss or Hongi. ﻿Why didn't you just book us into a hotel? ﻿How do you expect to get closer to your Whakapapa (genealogy) from a hotel. ﻿Well, you could have at least told me to bring a blanket? ﻿I did just before you cut me off when you were talking to your friend ROB in the car. ﻿Look, you are welcome to share with me, if you like ﻿Paul Murray Kotero (Good night child in Mauri) ﻿Cura, Cura, hi, can I just order a takeaway tea, please? ﻿Where you going to take it -Not far just over there? ﻿Oh sweet is. ﻿Oh, OK, great. ﻿Could I please have a loose-leaf tea black ﻿and with some almond milk or any kind of milk that just doesn't come from an animal. ﻿Oh my God. That would just be so perfect. Thank you so much. ﻿Almonds don't have titties. ﻿Oh, may I sit here? ﻿Oh, yeah, I'm just waiting for my tea and then I'll be gone. ﻿So this wonderful film last night can't quite remember the name of it. ﻿It was made by a Samoan woman. ﻿Oh, actually, look, that's the filmmaker. Just there. ﻿There you go and the milk is straight from a bottle, not an animal. ﻿ ﻿Welcome, everyone, to the Pacific Number One in New York.Kiwa Panel ﻿Mom, Oh here she is I wonder where you've gone to ﻿Ok I just need to get out of here to get some black loose leaf tea with some almond milk ﻿Sit down there we are about to start. ﻿So let's get the ball rolling here. ﻿What has been the biggest reward to you, Nikki, as one of New York Kiwa pacific digital film maker ﻿I have the privilege to make films from my point of view, an indigenous point of view ﻿our stories can finally be told from a true perspective. ﻿If you want to make a move then we better get going -huh? ﻿Because like you have such a need to connect, it takes your breath away. ﻿Leave. Why would I want to leave? ﻿And when you finally make that connection with audiences which are truly lifting ﻿Maybe we should stay just at least until the film screen. ﻿Well, Curefano, what a wonderful film. ﻿And we've also got a wonderful actor here ﻿Rachels come all the way down for the Aroha Film festival. ﻿Rachel, would you like to come up? ﻿Rachel, we'd really like it if you could come u ﻿Rachel, we can see you. ﻿Thank you so much for coming along. ﻿I'll kick it off with a question. ﻿So how was the experience of playing the role of the saintly mother? ﻿Oh, no, there wasn't me. I, I played the evil stepsister. ﻿Oh, how was that experience for you? ﻿It was really great. ﻿I yeah, I felt really connected to the character ﻿And 1 do a lot of personal experience to bring it to life ﻿Cura. Were you drawing from experience when you jumped in the sack with your sister's fiancee? ﻿Oh, no. That that wasn't from personal experience. ﻿You could have fooled me. ﻿Oh, thank you so much for Rachel for coming up and thank you for sharing this amazing film. ﻿If these guys could talk. ﻿Could everyone don't forget to come along to the gala tonight, 6:00 p.m. sharp? ﻿Beautiful film, that was a beautiful film. Who shot it? ﻿You're fluent in English. ﻿It looked amazing. ﻿I'm always looking for a good cinematographer. ﻿Sorry, I'm Nikki. ﻿It was nice to meet you. ﻿Congratulations on your work in the film. ﻿Terry, you know my boss, Terry ﻿and why aren't you standing at the food table and why do you look like that? ﻿Well, we better get our glad rags on for the awards dinner ﻿Cura Rachel. We'd better get ready for the awards dinner. ﻿I didn't bring anything for a night out in the country. ﻿Well,I could ask my new friends here, I suppose. ﻿Cura ﻿Totally. I would like a glass ﻿Now it looks as new as it did when I wore it to my school ball. ﻿Thanks for lending it to me fire. ﻿Just, you know. ﻿the award goes to Conor. ﻿Speaking Maori ﻿cheers, cheers to you. ﻿The grand prize is the Mara Aroha award for best film, and this year's recipient is. ﻿Oh wow, amazing. ﻿A pacific generation in waiting. ﻿Film is a medium that enables us to share our unique stories to the rest of the world. ﻿I am so humbled to be here and I am honored to accept this award. Thank you. ﻿Thanks, everyone, as they said in the film industry. ﻿That's a wrap for the wonderful Aroha Maori film festival. ﻿She's beautiful. ﻿Yes you are dear, we all are. ﻿No, she's beautiful. ﻿Rachel, there you are. Oh, my goodness, look at you. ﻿She was singing into the white telephone. ﻿Oh, oh, oh. That might grow you another one to match. ﻿Let's get you to bed shall we? ﻿How was film festival? ﻿Film fest, yeah, yeah, it was good, it was the best one I've been to. ﻿Catch a few films? ﻿Yeah. ﻿It was the one about the memories. ﻿In the the horses and the. ﻿Eight states add it all up. ﻿All of it all gone. ﻿Did you meet my friend Nikki? Nikki, did you see her there? ﻿Someone dark, attractive? ﻿- She's not that attractive. -So you saw her. ﻿Actually. ﻿- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, - she won an award. ﻿Did she? ﻿Wow, good for her. Breaking the cycles. ﻿Just get the Harrisons quote to me by Thursday. ﻿Oh shit ﻿Oh my god. ﻿Abundance. ﻿Oh, sorry. ﻿Namaste.it's all right, don't worry about it, because ﻿I wasn't feeling the connection anyway. ﻿How's the love trolling going? ﻿Oh, my Goddess. Oh, my Goddess. You've met someone ﻿you've met someone, I'm getting tequila. ﻿This is a tequila moment. ﻿Sam It's five o'clock somewhere. ﻿-Namaste -Namaste ﻿Who is it, is he anyone I know? ﻿Oh, did you meet him at that Maori film festival thingy? ﻿Is he tall, dark and handsome. ﻿Oh my god I bet he is, is he exotic? ﻿- Is he from south -he's a woman. ﻿Met a transvestite? Which is totally fine with me and it's very modern, you know. ﻿It's a woman. I can't stop thing about her. ﻿About who? ﻿Her name is Nikki and she's a filmmaker and she's Samoan. ﻿Wasn't it you that said, actually, Sam ﻿- we don't date Samoans - she doesn't even know that. ﻿That what, that you like women? ﻿-But I don't. -But you like this one. ﻿I don't I don't know what is what is happening. ﻿1, I'm losing my fucking mind ﻿like I'm stalking her every other second. ﻿And I am cooking cat food for my kids. Dinner. ﻿What's that smell. ﻿Oh, I'm going crazy. This is this is crazy. ﻿We need to make contact ﻿if you cannot shake this feeling, then you must act on it. ﻿No, I'm not going to ask a chick out on a date. ﻿-Why not? -Because. ﻿Because why? ﻿Why don't you just meet her for a coffee and a chat? ﻿Nothing heavy. And just see how you feel after that. ﻿Ok. ﻿So what do we do? ﻿Oh, my goodness, woman, how old are you? ﻿Well, I've never asked anyone out on a date before. ﻿Start from the beginning ﻿set up a meeting somewhere public. ﻿Say that you just want to talk about a film idea. ﻿Just get her to commit to seeing you. ﻿Film shows. What am I, a 13? ﻿- Hey babe, -Babes, how's the fishing going. Invited? ﻿Nothing. ﻿She's too busy working on movies and deadlines ﻿which just makes her sound fucking amazing. ﻿Hang in there. She probably is just busy. ﻿She is single, right? ﻿Is she even into chicks? ﻿- Oh, hey, Terry -it's Tere like it's always been. ﻿Something I can do for you, Rachel? ﻿No, no, no, no, no, no, everything's everything's good. ﻿Hey, hey. ﻿You know you know, your friend, the film filmmaker one? ﻿Samoan hangs around the food tables ﻿oh yea that one, you know I just I didn't I didn't see her with anyone at the film fest. ﻿- Anyone? - Yeah, well, not like anyone, but any one. ﻿I just thought her boyfriend or her husband ﻿may have been there to support her. ﻿She hasn't been with anyone for a while now. ﻿Oh, that's such a shame. ﻿Oh, yeah, because people like that ﻿they are just really cool, you know ﻿and they're really talented. And she's got the whole. ﻿You know, the. ﻿OK, ok, I'm just gonna. ﻿It's been about three years since she was with her last girlfriend. ﻿So then I said to her, did you touch her? ﻿Do you wanna be deported? ﻿You know, what she said to me, cousin. ﻿Shut up your mouth, bitch. ﻿And I was like ﻿Cousin, are you even listening to me? ﻿Sorry cousin, yes, I am listening. ﻿um, no, you are not. ﻿Philly, have you finished folding the washing? ﻿Are you lying? ﻿One, two, three, oh. ﻿Cousin, you're being quite secretive and it’s making me suspicious. ﻿Who is that -This Palagi lady? ﻿She keeps messaging me with time about a film idea she has. ﻿I've told her that I'm really busy, but she's pretty persistent. ﻿Is that right? ﻿- Hi, welcome - Table for two thanks. ﻿We are pretty full at the moment. Do you have a reservation? ﻿- Oh, no. -Oh, right. ﻿OK, we do have one table, but there's a small problem. ﻿- Are you serious? -Take it or leave it, sister. ﻿- hi -hi! Rachel ﻿You okay down there? ﻿Yeah, yeah. No, it's just really it's good for my back injury. ﻿Nothing too serious, I hope. ﻿No, no, no, no. It's just from lifting tires. ﻿- Sorry, i'm a bit late. -Oh it's fine, I literally just got here. ﻿Yeah. Hi ladies. Can I get you something to drink. ﻿Green tea if you have it please. ﻿A looseleaf black tea with almond milk. Thanks. ﻿Do you live around here? ﻿Yeah. Yeah. Me and the kids, we just look around the corner. ﻿Oh, You got kids? ﻿Yeah. Felix, who's eight, and Indie, who's six. ﻿Cool names. ﻿guess so. ﻿You wanted to talk to me about a film idea you have. ﻿Yeah, a real Box-Office killer. ﻿It's a sci-fi romantic thriller fantasy horror that's set in 2020. ﻿That's next year. ﻿One woman must protect her family from the depths of an inner city mall. ﻿What's she protecting them from ﻿Zombie's, shop assistant zombies ﻿Here's your green tea, and your almond everything. ﻿Thank you. ﻿Your idea sounds interesting, especially with the voice. ﻿Yeah, 1 just think it's really important to tell the story for the survivors ﻿of zombies. ﻿Nicki? Hey, thank you how are you? ﻿Haven't seen you since the brett party. ﻿I see you doing amazing, at Pinelli. ﻿Thanks. It's it was intense, but it's Hollywood. ﻿You should move up there. ﻿We can hang out on Venice Beach and stuff. ﻿Oh, sorry. This is Rachel. ﻿We were just talking about a film idea. ﻿Oh, my God. Are you finally doing that film about the Albino Dwarves? ﻿I just want to say that I believe in you ﻿and you are somebody who deserves the same opportunities as anybody else in the world. ﻿thank you. ﻿Oh, you're coming with me tonight. ﻿I am? where we are going? ﻿moms holding a fundraiser for the Samoa cyclones and 1 know how much you love charity. ﻿\Now. Rachel. ﻿Yes. I've I've got an urgent appointment with my gynaecologist anyway. ﻿Oh, he needs to see it now. ﻿Cool, yeah, sure, right. ﻿Today, it's my sister’s birthday and I've decided to throw her a birthday party because I'm a great big sister. ﻿Ok, listen up, everybody. ﻿Yes, I need you all here about six o'clock sharp, OK? ﻿Can you hear me... ﻿right on time and I don't want you running late on my birthday party. ﻿OK. For her ﻿My sister's acting really weird at the moment ﻿and she's being super nice to me. ﻿Deary. Refined sugar. ﻿Your vibration is incredibly low ﻿and that is not surprising given the dense non food that is pulsating through your system ﻿How did it go with Nikki? ﻿I made a total fool out of myself. ﻿She looked so amazing. ﻿I couldn't even concentrate ﻿and grown up Moana Polynesian goddess came in and ﻿swept her out right from under me. ﻿So it wouldn't be such a problem if I didn't ﻿if I just didn't feel like this, I mean, what is this? ﻿I felt like a blubbering teenager. ﻿To be fair, you've never done this before. ﻿Done what? ﻿Chased anyone, guys have always chased you. ﻿You're in foreign territory and she's a woman. ﻿She was off with another woman who's all brown and hot. ﻿And she doesn't need SPF 500 just to go to the litter box ﻿OK, you need to go and find her and show her ﻿how awesome and funny and smart and talented you are. ﻿There is no coming back from that ﻿the clock is ticking. Where did they go? ﻿No, I was too busy dying. 100 deaths and eighties. ﻿Oh, think hard. Where did they go? ﻿They went to a fundraiser for cyclones in Samoa. ﻿Great. Fantastic. I'll get on the old interweb ﻿and I'll find out where they've gone. ﻿Can we at least be inconspicuous? ﻿We are going to blend right in. ﻿I'm wondering why no one is dressed like 90s rappers like we are. ﻿This is just what showed up when I searched Urban Samoa chicks. ﻿Come on, hurry up, we are wasting time. ﻿-Can you see her anywhere? -No and I don't even think that i want to right now. ﻿Wait, isn't that your mate that I just met? ﻿-I don't want... Listen to me. -Oh, my god. She's coming over. Drink. Drink. ﻿-Hi, Rachel. What are you doing here? -Oh, I'm just supporting the cause with them friends. ﻿-Awesome. Every cent counts. -This is my friend Sam. ﻿-Hi. -Oh my God. Let me guess. 90s dress up party Vanilla Ice. ﻿Oh, you're both Vanilla Ice. ﻿I'm am sorry. We have to go. ﻿-Justin Bieber? -Wait Lets go. ﻿Stop, what, that was breaking ends back there? ﻿-Was that Rachel? -Yeah. You know her. ﻿Yeah. She cooks meals for the City Mission. She's cool. ﻿-It's funny what people look like outside of what we know. -Ok ﻿Cousin, why are we to stand so far away from the game ? ﻿Cause second hand smoking is hazardous to children's health. ﻿-How was the meeting with the blonde lady? -It was interesting ﻿Really ? ﻿I'm not really sure what it was about ﻿Philly tackle like mommy's showed you, not like daddy, for goodness sake. ﻿And then Frankie turned up, oh, my God, I loved her in that film. ﻿And we ended up going to her mom's fundraiser for the Cyclone run in Samoa. ﻿But what was really strange was the blonde lady turned up ﻿with her blonde friend dressed like new kids on the blocks. ﻿-Spoiler alert -what? ﻿Cousin she wants the P -the what? ﻿-The p the pussy the punane -cousin. It's disgusting ﻿-But it's true. -She ain't interested in me like that. ﻿She's a white mom who gets her nails done and lives in an expensive neighbourhood. ﻿She ain't interested. ﻿Come on, Riff, you wait till you get home, you go get it. ﻿Hi. Hey, is Tere available, please? -I give her a call. ﻿Hi, how are you? ﻿-I'm good, I'm good, -you hungry? ﻿-Yes -yeah we should move out ﻿Anywhere. Let's go to somewhere close. ﻿Let's go find Rachel. We'll say Hello, okay? ﻿What are you doing? ﻿Looking for my contact lens, this is really expensive, it must just popped right out of my face. ﻿You don't wear contacts ﻿But it's never too late to start. ﻿You remember Nikki? ﻿-Hi. How was the rest of your night? -It's pretty quiet. ﻿-You guys hang out now. -We cross paths. ﻿-Tere. It's for you. -Hello, Tere speaking. ﻿How's Frankie? Sorry, I shouldn't pry. ﻿-That's OK, according to the gram her boyfriend is spinning some R and R in Bali. -She's got a boyfriend? ﻿Rocco he's stuck on the roof of the gymnasium. ﻿-And I'm going to have to rain check lunch. -Totally fine. ﻿-Oh, OK. Thank you. -Good luck. ﻿I don't suppose you know any way around here that’s good to get a bite to eat. ﻿Yes, there's a really good canteen just around the corner. ﻿Oh, well, you go down the stairs and then you take a right ﻿-I can give you the address if you want -or you can show me. ﻿ ﻿Yeah, that's if you don't already have plans for lunch. ﻿-No, no, no. Yes, no. Yes. -All right? ﻿OK, I'll just go get my bag. ﻿-Should we go? -yea ﻿-have your a few minutes to look over the menu? -Great. ﻿How's Felix and Indie? ﻿Oh, good memory ﻿yeah, be great, and I'm so lucky to have them and lucky that they still want me as their mom ﻿especially after the last few weeks. ﻿Do you have kids? ﻿No, I think I've just resigned ﻿to the fact that pushing a watermelon out of something the size of a squash ball ﻿is basically for the tough ones like yourself. ﻿No, see, that was the easy part. The war on chores is still ongoing. ﻿Oh, you better get back in before the boss returns. ﻿She won't admit it, but she loves me. ﻿-Thank you for the company. -It's very cool. ﻿-Thank you. I'll catch you around. -Sounds good. Great. ﻿OK. OK, bye. ﻿Do you like foreign films? ﻿-Yeah, -there's a Spanish film that's playing tomorrow, if you'd like to go with me. ﻿-Yeah, I would love to. -OK, I'll pick you up. ﻿-Sounds great. -Sweet, message me your address. Have a good rest of your day ﻿Ok ﻿Hello, Rachel. ﻿- Oh, you're looking lovely. - You going somewhere? ﻿-Yeah, yeah, I’m actually on my way out -I won't be long then. ﻿Look, I've been thinking at the film festival ﻿I couldn't help but notice that you were well, you didn't seem that happy, right? ﻿Oh, I'm just going to come right out and say it. You remember Susan? ﻿Well, her son Brian is just back from Europe without his wife. Shocking breakup. Oh. ﻿There won't be many people there, just a select few and young Brian, of course. ﻿Oh, yes, yes. I'll come. ﻿Wonderful, Rach? Oh, I have such a good feeling about this. ﻿-Oh, mommm I just put the rubbish out. Really stinks. You should go. -I didn't smell it on the way. ﻿- Oh how weird OK? - I love you. All right. Bye. ﻿Rachel. Look honestly..It s very easy, Rachel, He's a banker. A banker. ﻿I can't hear you. I love you. ﻿-Hi. -Hey ﻿-Nice place. -Thanks. ﻿-How long have you lived here? -We haven't really been here that long. ﻿Everything OK? ﻿Yes, yeah, everything's fine. We should we should just sit for a little while. We should sit. ﻿Actually, we should go because we don't wanna miss the trailers. ﻿-I am so excited to see this. -Me too, I love the director ﻿He is a genius. ﻿-You ok? -yea I just I don't usually watch these types of films. ﻿I thought you said you liked foreign films. ﻿Yea love foreign films, I just I can't really read the words, moving fast. ﻿I think I have dyslexia or I'm just really, really bad at reading. ﻿-I can read the subtitles for you. -ok ﻿My name is Rosa and I live in small village in the west of Spain. ﻿I've always dreamed of being someone else and I knew one day my life would be very different. ﻿-What do you think? -It was amazing as long as he knew what they were saying, which I did. Thanks to you ﻿-They normally don't have Samoan Kiwi accent. -Yeah, but that just made it better. ﻿Are you hungry? Thirsty. Need dessert. ﻿You know, I make amazing tea if you want to come try it back at my place. ﻿I just forgot that my key doesn't open the door from the front. ﻿I've got to go around the back and open it from there. I'll be right back. ﻿Come on, baby, come to mama little Kenny, you're just prolonging the inevitable. I will get you though. ﻿Love and Light love and light love and light. ﻿you better be planning a wedding. ﻿She's here. ﻿We went to a movie and it was amazing and then ﻿I invited her back to my place for tea and now i think that something might happen. ﻿And I don't know what to do. ﻿Listen to me. You have a very particular set of skills, ﻿skills that are transferable, skills that you've acquired over many years. ﻿Follow your instincts and if it all turns to custard, I will find you. ﻿-Ok, I have to go. -Rach. ﻿Moonbeam, I see you. ﻿Sorry about that, I just had to switch the jug on, come on in ﻿-Your kids look like fun. -Yeah, I really hope you like them ﻿-Tea, tea, I hope you like green tea. -Love green too. ﻿So do I. Yeah. My, uh, my friends actually call me a tea nut. ﻿-Cheers -Cheers. ﻿-Are you cold? -A little. ﻿I put the air con on, but I could just crank it up a bit. Yeah. ﻿-Do you like music, so I'll just I’ll put something on -Sure ﻿My mom bought a Maori CD for Indie, so she must have swapped my slow jams one out for that one. ﻿Sorry about that. I'm sorry about all of this. ﻿I've had a really great time with you tonight ﻿and I think it's fair to say that I really like you, but I think it's best we just call it a night. ﻿I really enjoyed tonight, Rachel. I hope we can do it again sometime. ﻿Shit ﻿Nikki! ﻿I think you should take me inside. ﻿-Good morning. -Morning. Smells good. ﻿I made you some green tea. It's not like the one from last night. ﻿-Are you hungry? Breakfast is almost ready. -Love to, but I want to be at work soon. ﻿-Thanks for calling me back last night. -Thanks for coming back. ﻿You look different today. ﻿Not sure if you're aware, but there's a whole new family of warts under her foot. ﻿-You Ok? -Yeah. ﻿-Oh, you look different. -I feel different ﻿you smell different ﻿OK. And who is hungry? ﻿-Why, hello there, Miss Nikki. -Hey, you, how are you going? ﻿I'm good. I'm better now. ﻿I finish this job on Friday, so I was thinking we should probably go out to dinner and celebrate. ﻿Oh, no, I totally forgot the kids and I am off to Waikiki this Friday for my cousin's wedding. ﻿That's cool. We will just do it when you are back, you coming back, right? ﻿Yes, we're coming back. I'm only gone for the weekend. ﻿Mom, Phil's birthday vase ﻿1 have to go, I have a kid emergency, but I'll call you later. ﻿Yeah, of course. I'll talk to you then, bye. ﻿-Hey, the clients are here to see the cut, should I let them in? -Yeah, it's all ready to go. ﻿-I told you she wanted the P. Cousin can I ask you a question, -what? ﻿-What does Palagi tastes like? -You're disgusting ﻿-I'm just asking, gosh, why are you so touchy -I'm not. ﻿Oh my gosh, cousin, have you a Palagi fever? ﻿What? ﻿-You have! You've fallen in love with her! -I have not! ﻿Cousin. She's going to a wedding. Do you know what happens at weddings? ﻿-Two people get married ? -two people get drunk and hook up. ﻿If you're really serious about her you better claim your woman A.S.A.P. before somebody else does. ﻿How are we even related? ﻿Hi. I was just wondering if you wanted to go to dinner before you go away ﻿like tomorrow night? ﻿-Yeah -OK, that sounds good. ﻿-Cool, I'll pick you up around 6:30. -Great. ﻿-I'll see you then. Bye -Bye. ﻿-I don't know why they come to drink -My god I'm gonna turn you into it. ﻿Thank you ﻿- Take a few minutes -excellent great. Thank you. ﻿-Are you hungry7 -I don't really have much of an appetite. ﻿Funny but me neithe ﻿Actually, I wanted to. ﻿-go to the bathroom -okay. ﻿Come on, you've got this. ﻿-Hey, -hey ﻿you here with Rachel? ﻿-You're a friend of her ? -A friend? ﻿I guess you could call it that, but I won't be tapping her again. ﻿She's one of those loving and leaving kinds, You know ﻿what you are up to later tonight? ﻿There you are. I thought you'd gotten lost. ﻿I think I wanna go ﻿Now? But we haven't even ordered. Is everything OK? ﻿-I just want to go please. -Nikki! ﻿-Can you just tell me what happened back there? -Nothing. I just bumped into someone. ﻿Is that it? ﻿Yeah, that's it. ﻿Nikki! ﻿Okay, let's go, taxi's here. ﻿We need bags, sunglasses, shoes, oh, let me see your teeth. Did you brush? Yes. Good girl. ﻿OK. I think you're all good. My god, you look so cute. Monkey. ﻿-Woa mom, you gonna smudge my dress on you. -Oh, sorry. Hello. ﻿OK, I think we should make a move. ﻿Do you continue to honour your relationship through honesty, loyalty ﻿and to build a foundation for your future? ﻿I do. ﻿Em, Do you take Najd for the person he has become ﻿and to stand by and support him and his individual growth? ﻿I do. ﻿There is one more thing we would all love to witness ﻿and that is the seal of your commitment to one another in an embrace of love. ﻿I pronounce you married. ﻿ ﻿-I accidentally called you sorry. -It's all good. ﻿Actually, I'm not sorry, what I am is really confused. ﻿I have no idea what happened at dinner. I thought we were having a good time. ﻿We were. ﻿Look, I wanna be someone's special one, not just a number in a black book of hookup ﻿Is that all you think you are to me? A hook up? ﻿I've gotta go, enjoy the wedding. ﻿Mom! ﻿Mom, look what Andy's found! ﻿Hi, thank you for coming in, I really appreciate your time so much ﻿-Thanks, Nikki! -thank you bye ﻿oh my gosh ﻿I'm so happy you did it ﻿-we did it -oh you did it i know ﻿-such a good job. -I know, good thing, right ﻿Ok, cool ﻿Guys, i've got nothing to say, We loved it. ﻿Thanks thanks. ﻿-Are you sure it's alright, Mom? -Of course, these two are the cheapest caddies on the island. ﻿Listen, I love you. ﻿I want you to be good for Mama and I will pick you up from the ferry building in two more sleeps. ﻿OK. ﻿OK thank you. ﻿All right. ﻿-Bye -bye. ﻿What are we doing? Right. Who wants to go swimming for golf balls? ﻿-Me! -Come on. ﻿Rachel, I feel like my heart has swelled with love for you. ﻿Thank you for coming to get me and not giving up on the idea of us. ﻿I thought this would be a good time to ask you truly and honestly ﻿If you would consider becoming my lady, my lover, my partner, my soul mate ﻿for however long we both decide suits us best. ﻿I love you, Rachel. ﻿And hope you will walk alongside me. ﻿For this moment in time. ﻿I was supposed to give you that at dinner. ﻿But you know how that turned out. ﻿So what do you reckon? ﻿