Transcript for The Royal Scoundrel (1991) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Another failure Who does he think he is Local, local, local, by air, local no stamps, I have to pay for them again local, a lot of local mail today by air, by air you're pretending to be the mailman if you send any mail, you want them received we're here to investigate, let's go still eating your potato chips! Don't forget the camera We'll take one, wait, then another he's beating her again beating her? Come up beach boy, he's beating her again you need a good beating put away the things the bastard has this hobby to beating others one look and you know he's a bastard this bastard beats her regularly I'll go out and have a look wait, then take another shot alright Quiet, I was just working down there please keep quiet! What are you doing down there? Cleaning the pipes you were I did not see a thing my eyes was shut just at that moment! You really didn't see anything maybe my head touched your thighs are you thighs alright? I really didn't see anything, I'm sorry! Why are you taking pictures here? Don't use the flash you want everyone to know you're in there How can I do it without the flash from now on, don't use the flash hey, beach boy, beach boy how can we do it? Stupid kid don't take anymore Why did you hit me? Because you had no response you're screwing things up! Watch your temper holed up here everyday, who can help it? Who do you think she's looking for? Daddy, daddy you're giving yourself all this trouble you should use the school bus come back, come back, you'll get hit! You think I want this, one a year to 7 years 7, if their mom didn't die, I'd have 11 I'll be retiring in 3 years, have to watch my money what are you doing bullying you brother big brother tai cheong, you're the naughtiest go take care of your brother you've been taking care of me these few years -daddy, you have to sign my handbook -otherwise I would've been discharged don't mention it you're taking it out only now? Take a look yourself turn over! You kid, you're the bottom in your class you're failing all your subjects it's true, beach boy -daddy, daddy -i understand -daddy, daddy -it's true, beach boy, although -daddy, daddy -i understand even though I'm not close to retirement but my skills and courage are wow, a fight wow, hit him get up! Stop fighting fighting? What is this, are you blind? -My business, this is curry -I'm sorry -sorry, -this is curry, what is this? Cid, sorry it's ok, sir, get it out and clean it sorry, sorry! Concentrate, get it out concentrate, don't look, concentrate - uncle! - I understand! We'll be late for school! Excuse me... cid... We'll make it, don't worry wait sorry we're late, I belong to... I understand cid right! Yes, you're right, I'm a cid ok, get in, take care, don't wet your pants take care of your sister, goodbye! Goodbye! I've taken it from all angles, I work hard we've not taking it for competition! Mrs. Chow, shop around? I've bought it! Today's vegetables are very fresh I bought winter melon already - carrots aren't bad! - Can I have a piece of green onion you don't buy from me, you only want free onions hey! What is it? Are you working or shopping? Let's go! I'll buy you a coffee when you're free 9 out of 10 is of him please don't step on them he's suspicious, Mrs. Chow Mrs. Chow! Yes, yes, there's suspicion beach boy, I think we can wrap up the case let's give fatso the case you're crazy, we should claim the credit! Don't run, don't run very fresh still trying to run, I'll get you got you! Quickly pick them up Why are you so late, move them over there he'll get a beating eventually We'll have to get it back for them that should put it out help me beach boy, get down here all the letters are getting away I told you not to mess with the post! Come help me first, stop nagging the letters won't be received! Dear! The letters are all flowing away you're terrible! Get them back first, then blame me One type of police does investigation work another type delivers documents, if you like why don't you apply for that position money differs, I have 7 kids I'm just talking to myself, keep blowing good! The address is still legible what are you doing stealing again? -Always stealing -come catch me! Hey don't run! Rotten kid don't look so smug when others talk about the smug look that's the way it looks What are you doing here? Go man the store I'll beat you to death which bastard did it? Still standing here! Hey, what are you doing? A big man like you crying she really is unfortunate you're reading people's letters that bastard is not her own father she saved hard for months and saved $300 wanted to send to her granny but he found out and took it away! -She got no other relatives here -i read it too, no need to tell me The pipes are cleared, you're still washing Why are you so sad? How can you stand you stepfather beating you? How do you know he's my stepfather your real father won't beat you up like that that bastard will eventually be locked up don't' keep that frown on you do you know who threw that egg was that you? Why do you like flowered pattern? How do you know? I saw your underpants Wait, something's up you take the pictures, don't use the flash Cid cid don't move I'm cid too you get out, you get in the car we were stationed inside the postal box we saw someone suspicious, so we quickly shut up! I told you we're placing bugs in your superior knows, didn't you get a memo yes, I did, early this morning why don't you give it to me tomorrow sorry! Fatso your subordinates... Understand, Mr. Robinson I beg you, please give me a break what can I say I've told you many times everyone makes mistakes, apologize sorry, fatso! What if someone finds out the fake postal box now the whole plan is ruined! Be careful next time, understand? Understand then get out wait for me wait, I'm not finished! Two weeks, just two weeks then I can immigrate in peace yes, we'll try hard don't try hard, just hide yourselves understand, hide inside the mail box don't, this case is under another team just do your regular stuff do less, stay out of trouble, understand? Understand fatso -the postal box -don't bother 0k, 0k late off work again! Beach boy, stay cool cool? After half a month in the smelly sewage telling us to stop abruptly and be cool? What do you want to do now work on it! Don't! Fatso ordered us not too one has to be aggressive Get out of the car! Cid What did I tell you? Don't steal what were you doing at the betting station? Steal what will your mom do if you end up in jail just to make a living, sir living, gamble less and you can feed eight well alright, who is that guy? He's lo to keung, he may look like a bum but he's doing well what's he in? I don't know don't beat him, he's not finished let him speak first he hangs out with the Taiwanese gang I know I just know he likes dancing when did I ever give you wrong information? Don't be like this, beach boy he won't dare play around us take it all out what! I will... They're all here sorry to bother you, there's still some there's no more, honest! Today is ah bee's birthday Take it thank you get him a present thank you get off the car not here get off the car getting off now, we're in the middle of nowhere quick get off the car! Watch out for yourself! Be smart, watch out for the cars leaving him here seems a bit harsh that will give him a lesson that's true $30 for this shirt, I wore it twice now the threats are loose coming this is pretty, don't be shy he trying to make a deal what's he dealing? How do I know follow him Where the hell is he going? What? Walking over 10 blocks to the drug store giving us all this trouble - we needn't have run so hard -close the gate! Mrs. Chow, watch here and get him I'll be at the other end get you Cid - are you crazy? Running out like this! - Get away... -Cid, leave please -so what? Cid -does it mean you can run out anytime -are you leaving or not cid Where are you going? You stay here and watch cid don't move or I'll shoot her let her go! I'm insp. Lee nam for serious crime Don't worry, it's all over you're always acting on your own I know you're great, give me a report on this yes, sir returning this to you, thank you see you Two weeks have passed, I am retiring from this minute onwards whatever you do is none of my business do whatever you like, bye write us if you're free, fatso bon voyage, fatso never thought I could sit here do I look like the boss the hell you do let me just sit here for a moment! Beach boy! - What? - Have some chips do you know who will be sitting here? I don't know have some chips Look at him I just can't stand him, ass-hole! Does he need a BMW for the work makes us look bad don't antagonize him too much he can transfer us out What's he doing here? Put your bets in that's right, today is racing day it's rusty Mr. Lee he's out informer look, what is this? It's not mine, don't believe him how did you get to be like this? Listen to me, I'll explain - it's not mine! - Where did you get from where did you get this? Are you dealing drugs? Don't beach boy beach sir, don't beat me! You've known me for so long, I'm not in drugs so you're saying I'm setting you up I didn't do it I am not setting you up you are dealing in drugs you bastard -and you're saying I've set you up -don't hit, don't hit you'll kill him, don't hit him what shall we do sir? Sir... Pick up the drug! Don't beat him do you want to take his life? We all have a mother! Just ask what you want to know! Where's lo to keung hiding? I'm warning you, don't play game with me how do I dare. I don't want another beating let's go! Let's go! Lee sir, let me take him back to the station what do you know? Pick them up I told you to pick them up this is an order! Yes sir how dare you play games with me did we ever play games with him? Are you alright? Should I take you to the bonesetter? Nevermind, Mrs. Chow gave me something to take no need to go now what's your beef with the bastard? Nothing what did he ask you in the afternoon nothing don't play with me I'm not playing with you do not make this bigger what did you say? -Nothing! Hey -let go of me -it's true. He always sets people up -shut up! I'll do what is ordered do you think I like that? Flowered pattern girl there're no buses this late come over, I'll give you a ride come over here Not kidding, there're no buses at this time you're soaking wet come over here You insist on waiting don't you? Ok, goodbye, no use being nice He's always putting it out on me if I knew my mom was dead, I wouldn't have come cry if you want to it will make you feel better Have a drink, first no, I will get drunk first wipe away your tears What are your plans? If I didn't get in, I wouldn't know what to do do you have any relatives in hk? No, not one Don't cry! Have a drink first, you'll feel better come! I'll end up being drunk! Sir. This girl - no, this girl... - Nothing - no, this girl... - What do you mean "no"? Cid, get away! 10 years in the police, I've seen it all picking up the drugs Have a drink We're just as bad let's have a drink and wash away our bad luck come on -come on -if I'm drunk will you leave me? Come stay with me if you have nowhere come on Beach boy, have breakfast Why is there someone here? She must have stayed after getting drunk No way women cannot be partpered Come and have breakfast let me tell you my house rules I'm ah yuk, thank you for taking me in slippers one look at this place and you know I'll very casual -if you stay here -I'll help you clean up but this place is very dirty ants, rats, cockroaches and insects as I said, I'm very casual don't worry, I'll clean for you I'll do the cleaning come over here first sit down that's good, just like a maid your pager thank you you eat while I go do some work Jesus, chow shouldn't call me that late Besides door d & b lo to keung can get away from h Mrs. Chow and beach boy will watch over this door Mrs. Chow and beach boy in charge Mrs. Chow! Yes, sir! If beach boy's not here, big dog will take his place yes, sir! Everyone understand? Understand! - Sir! - Let' s go yes, sir! Sorry I'm late that's not good Where's chow? What's happening - what is it? - Beach boy why are you so late beach boy? -Beach boy -sir! You'll lose yourjobs if you screw this up alright! What more are you saying? What is it you're looking at all the time? The map let me take a look I'm the only one who can read it what is our mission exactly look for h, lock it and watch over it just like that? Yes, it's very important first look for sparkle, over here beach boy sparkle... Mrs. Chow! Sparkle, sparkle, over here let me see! Aren't you tired, take a rest? Do you read me, group a? This is group a read you do you read me, group b? We're back to where we started can't you read the map? We're back to sparkle -we're group c -do you read me, group c? Are you ready? - Where are you? - Position h have you locked it? -Notyet -done. That side? This side give me the map alright, that's it son of the bitch, so late we learn that rabbit is around, be ready let me have a cigarette first what ever it is, you tell me? Is this considered the map? What do you think? How do we read this? -We'll be rich -check carefully, no exchange son of a bitch! Action watch all the exits What is there around h? Is there a fire hose, elevator, whatever rabbit got away, group c, did you get me? Got you! Beach boy, hold me, don't let go don't let go found it, door h is over here door h is here you two, don't let him get away lock the door not yet Beach boy, beach boy don't shoot beach boy! Mrs. Chow beach boy! Beach boy! He's getting away Rabbit has escaped Position h calling insp. Lee You've got no brains Lee sir, calling Lee sir I've been shot why are you so stupid? You'll be discharged, going against him so what! I'm discharged don't move -Lee sir, I've been shot -don't move Group a, call for the ambulance have some congee! You've got it all over you you're terrible come, he's coming again Sir! Sir! Congratulation, you're very brave ready? Take a rest thank you sir all this praise, how can you be discharged? You did not do what you were told are you talking? One word from Robinson is worth 10 from Lee nam I think it's worth 100 words only 10 are you alright? You've got the floors well polished Slippers I'll get dinner, why don't you change first it's like she's worked at club Volvo come, don't smoke have your meal sit down Take your time Is my cooking not good? Let's eat together! Alright! Let's eat Hey! He's here! Uncle daddy is in the hospital, so... Understand nothing good from chow come over here miss you're the one staying with him? Dad told us to pretend not to know "Meeting you" "sharing these warm moments" "your smiling face relieves my worries" "surrounding me with sweetness" "and feelings ever so tender" "brings out my love & longing" "your smiling face fills me with confidence" "fate has brought us together" "show me your lovely face" "treasure my love for you" So you like turtles Turtles You'll get sick, playing like this all games will be stopped for 15 minutes are you alright? Are you alright? This is fun? You've the wrong seat, sit over here Beach boy, hold her, kiss her "meeting you" "sharing these warm moments" "your smiling face relieves my worries" "surrounding me with sweetness" "and feelings ever so tender" "brings out my love & longing" "your smiling face fills me with confidence" "fate has brought us together" "show me your lovely face" "treasure my love for you" "love is sweet, let it last forever!" "Sharing each day of my life with you" "congratulation to Mrs. Chow's meritorious service" yes! Daddy good, be good daddy, how about me? You've locked me up for days, what do you want? -Water... water -who are the Taiwanese dealing with? Water Who is the Taiwanese money for? Stop it! Then I will talk stop it... don't! The money pass to ah shing in China, stop it! - Thank you! - Stop it! Good morning I recognize you, I am bringing beach boy some soup have some yourself! I'll pour you some there's no need this fish soup is very good thank you! I haven't thank you for saving my life you're welcomed, it's my job I'll bring it up to him, next time I'll get you some too bye Beach boy, I've got some soup for you flirt! No need for you to pick it up the station has people to do it if none, I can do it myself never thought you're a flirt what are you doing at the station? You think I don't have any soup here? Go away it's sour go away you can take the soup back go away wait, ah yuk, don't go! Why do you quarrel with her? She's interested in someone else! If you're so unhappy, don't do it staying silent just because you've got support! I'll heat the soup up for you is this not bad enough? I am not worthy to have your soup I don't know what you're up to of course you don't know you've got your eyes on someone else stay there come over here I knew you wouldn't be happy here I did not ask you have for trouble if you like I can leave right away don't act like this towards me the situation is not that bad why do you say I'm a flirt? First explain what were you doing in his room I am Yes, ok, ok, bye bye who is it? Don't pamper her who is it? Lee sir, he's asking me to the movie phoning my home to date you out! How could you give my number to others? Will you also be bringing men home? This is my home, not a motel I've to make it clear to him tomorrow Mrs. Chow beach boy, Lee sir wants to see us! That's good. I want to see him too wait! Mr. Lee, I want to tell you know about ah yuk and me starting today you'll be stationed at kcr station! I'll keep you informed of anything else - don't side track me! - Lee sir, it's alright, ok -don't phone my home to date ah yuk -haven't you had enough? -No, no -just because she gave you some soup ah yuk doesn't like people like you - do you want to be transferred in country side? - She doesn't like people with so little hair do you want to be transferred in country side? Just because you're my supervisor, you're pressuring me - so what if I'm transferred! - Let's go, keep quiet who does he think he is sorry sir sorry sir who does he think we are, prostitutes? Transferring us here and there misusing his authority to get at me he is just jealous of me putting me and the bastard who will ah yuk choose? Of course him! Ready, there are reasons he's got money, looks and a better position if I were to choose, I choose... but I can't you're crazy we've been together for a while living together, understanding each other beach boy, I don't think we've looked over there I have to go to the toilet!