Transcript for On the Edge (1989) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- - [Vince] And it's a beautiful day, ladies and gentlemen. Wilson over to Rodriguez, Rodriguez back. He shoots the 15-foot shot that wouldn't be answered on Sunday. It's a prayer, ladies and gentlemen. And it's a great day for basketball, don't you think? - [Vince] Yes, I do, John. I think it's a great day for basketball. We've got some great talent here, and I think we're gonna have a wonderful season ending to a wonderful basketball season. Two players, one tall thin guy, one short fat guy. It's gonna be fantastic. It's marvelous to see this kind of talent get together on a court and just make the magic happen. You know what I'm saying? - [Vince] Yeah, I do know what you're saying. - [Man] Vince, come on, let's go, let's go. - [Vince] Hoo-hoo! You love it. Beautiful, ladies and gentlemen. Oh, look who's here. In from the bench, in from the bench. Look at this, man. For the title (mumbles). Ah, take that shot! - Okay, fellas, let's play. ♪ We're playing games ♪ ♪ The two of us ♪ ♪ You're disconnected ♪ ♪ Out of touch ♪ ♪ I thought I knew you but I must be wrong ♪ ♪ Don't play games with me, my friend ♪ ♪ Oh, can't you see ♪ ♪ The way it used to be is just a memory ♪ ♪ Don't play games with me ♪ ♪ Let's buy some honesty ♪ ♪ Let's stop our emnity ♪ ♪ And make us once more free ♪ ♪ The stakes are high, the lines are drawn ♪ ♪ The cards are on the table ♪ ♪ All this, don't you steal ♪ ♪ It isn't just a fable ♪ ♪ I've heard it all a dozen times ♪ - What's your problem, man? - What's YOUR problem? - Would you do me a favor, Ross. Keep your beer cans on your side of the room. Thanks. - Yeah, sure. Say, do me a favor. Keep your Christian literature on your side of the room. Thanks. - [Vince] Oh, so that's what this is all about. - I don't know what your problem is, Vince. Ever since you came back from that ski trip, all you do is talk about God and read the Bible. - Well, you know what, all you ever do is party and drink beer. You know there's more to life than that, Ross. - Look, believing in God is one thing, but don't get so carried away with it. - Having a relationship with Christ is the only thing that's made a real difference in my life, okay, Ross? - Then why don't I get anything out of it? - [Vince] Because you don't want anything out of it. - If I'm gonna want something, I have to have a reason to believe in the first place. - [Vince] Well, why don't you take a look outside the window then. Everything that exists shows design. The world's too perfect to have just been thrown together by some accident. - Yeah? - [Vince] Yeah. - Watch this. There, that's a design, modern art all over the floor, perfectly by accident. - Yeah, but didn't it still take you to throw the can? - Can you prove to me that God exists? - Yeah. Yeah, I can. - Yeah? Okay, since you're so sure, why don't we make a little bet. - That's stupid. Why should I bet? - Yeah, this is just another phase you're in, isn't it? - Okay, fine. You wanna bet? You wanna bet? And if I prove it? - Okay, if you prove it, I will go out and stick myself in the nearest monastery. - It's not funny. Seriously. - All right. - [Vince] All right. - I'll seriously consider your Christianity. - All right, now you're on. - But if you don't prove it, I don't wanna hear another word about this ever. - Okay. So all I gotta do is prove that God exists. That's great. Well, I was just wondering, how do you prove that God exists? - That's not so easy to do. There's some good reasons, but it depends on what they're looking for. Why don't we talk about it up in Yosemite with the youth group this weekend? - Okay, yeah. Yeah, that'd be fine. Hey, Nick, would it be okay if I brought my roommate along? - Sure, the more the merrier. Woody's trying to get Shawna to come. - [Vince] Shawna's coming? - We don't know yet. Woody hasn't heard back from her. - Oh, that'd be great. It'd be great to see everybody again. - Yeah, sure will. Listen, I gotta get going here. I'll call you in a couple of days, let you know the details, okay? - Yeah, bye, Nick. (upbeat music) - Well, I just came from science class, and you might as well give up. Dr. Winn explained how the entire universe was created by a huge cosmic explosion. The Big Bang makes more sense to me than God does. - Did the guy explain to you where the universe came from in the first place before it got blown up? - They're still working on that. - Ross, can't you see this goes beyond what science can answer? Look, in order for me to prove God to you, you're gonna have to take a little trip with me this weekend. - This weekend? Man, I have to study. - Oh, since when do you study? Ross, are you gonna play fair with this bet or not? - All right, all right. Where do I have to go? - Yosemite. - Yosemite? As in California? - No, as in Yosemite Sam. Of course it's in California. If you're not gonna have faith in God, you're just gonna have to trust me. - Why do I have a feeling I'm gonna regret this? (upbeat music) - Hey! Whoa! What's Up, man? - Shake my hand. - Have you seen Shawna? - Yeah, right through there. Hey, look, man. And one of these. Is there anything, your shirt maybe? See you later, man. All right, you need a beer. You need another beer. - Hey, what's up? - Come on, babe, how about it? - Let's try this one more time. No! That means I'm not interested, okay? - Shawna! I knew I'd find you here. Why haven't you returned any of my phone calls? - I've been busy. Besides I didn't think it was a good idea for me to go on another trip with your church group. - Why not? Everybody's looking forward to seeing you. - Are they really? - Yes. - No. I couldn't face them after the way I acted on that ski trip. Me and God just aren't on very good terms right now. - So if you came, we could talk about it. - I don't really want to talk about it. - Why can't you just admit to yourself the real problem? You're afraid that one day, you're gonna have to face God and tell him what you've been doing with your life. - Why don't you just drop it? I have a date. I'm going to a party. - Whoo, with you, some sleazebag you met at a bar? - Hey, I don't date sleazebags. Just leave me alone! - [Vince] We're almost there, Shawna. Aren't you glad I talked you into coming? - [Shawna] I'm not so sure. I just can't get over you guys coming all the way to school to pick me up. - [Vince] Oh, come on. It wouldn't have been the same without you. Trust me, it's gonna be great. (car horn honks) - Hey! - Hey! - You finally made it. - Nice view! - Hey, Vince, how you doing? - [Vince] All right. How you doing? - Good to see you. - [Vince] Good to see you. Hey, Xalton, what's up? - Hey, Shawna, I thought you couldn't make it? - Shawna, what are you doing here? - I could leave. - No, we're glad you came, Shawna. - So our prodigal daughter has returned. - Don't start with me, Xalton. - Hey, I promised Shawna that we had enough extra equipment that she could come along with us. That's no problem. - Listen, I have an extra pair of jeans and tennis shoes in the car. - Yeah, there's a sleeping bag and a pack you can carry. - Vince, why don't you introduce us to your roommate? - Oh, yeah. Ross, this is the gang. We got Nick. - [Nick] How you doing, Ross? - Hey. - Woody. - Hey. - [Vince] Xalton. - [Ross] How you doing? - And Xalton's little sister, Trish. - Younger sister, not little. - Hi, everybody. How you doing? - Well, guys, are we gonna stand around here all day, or are we gonna do some camping? - Let's do it. ♪ Humble yourself before the almighty ♪ ♪ That's where you'll find true wisdom ♪ ♪ Make it your first, make it your last thought ♪ ♪ Lying in bed when the day is done ♪ ♪ Hear it calling out your name ♪ ♪ In the busy streets in the center of town ♪ ♪ Who will turn their face to truth ♪ ♪ And then live it out ♪ ♪ Wisdom is greater than any fleeting ♪ ♪ Pressures that money brings you ♪ ♪ And answers will come to those who pursue ♪ ♪ The pathway to life that you choose ♪ ♪ Hear it calling out your name ♪ ♪ In the busy streets in the center of town ♪ ♪ Who will turn their face to truth ♪ ♪ And then live it out ♪ ♪ Now that you're away to filling your arms ♪ ♪ With more than they ever could grasp ♪ ♪ Blessed are you who hunger for truth ♪ ♪ And keep your eyes fixed on the mass ♪ ♪ Hear it calling out your name ♪ ♪ In the busy streets in the center of town ♪ ♪ Who will turn their face to truth ♪ ♪ And then live it out ♪ (group laughs) - Oh, that was a good one. - All right, who's responsible for this? - [Woody] Who packed the lunches? - I did, why? - Well, I hope you like pocket bread because these sandwiches are squished flatter than a pancake. - Good move, Nick. - That's no way to impress the girls about your homemaking skills. - That's the idea, Trish. Besides, what do you want? We're camping. - Say, does anyone wanna change shoes? My feet are killing me. - I would, Ross, but I don't think it'd do anything for a tenderfoot like you. (group laughs) - What's that supposed to mean? - It means you should come on more camping trips with us. - You guys are pretty contagious, aren't you? - We try, Shawna, we try. - Okay, now remember, in rock climbing, it's important to take everything slow and easy. - Okay, great. Would you give me the rope, please? - Now just make sure you check everything before you do anything. - Oh, I'm gonna check everything at least twice. - All right, hotdog, you sound ready. - I'm telling you, buddy, this is no problem. I've done it before. - Let's just see what you're made of. - So for the rest of the trip, we called her lamb chop. (both giggle) - Shawna, I'm really glad that you came. - Me too. - It's so beautiful out here. - Yeah, it's (mumbles) to hike up. - Xalton, you better be careful with all this mountain climbing stuff. You're really making me nervous. - Don't worry, Trish. When you've been doing this as long as I have, you know how to be careful. - I don't know how you can even do that. I'm so scared of heights, I'm afraid sitting right here. - Don't worry, we're not going anywhere. Us girls need to stick together. Be careful, okay, Xalton? - I'll tell you what. We're gonna finish this up, and then we'll take off. Your turn, Woody! - I think I'm gonna stay up here and watch the packs. (girls laugh) - All right. (Shawna clucks) - Be careful! (Vince grunts) - So tell me something, Ross. How can an explosion make all this? - If you took biology or earth science instead of all those acting classes, you might know a little bit more about it. - You're so skeptical. I mean you don't believe anything unless it's right in front of your face. That's a really ignorant attitude. - Get off my back, St. Vince. I think you should worry about your own attitude. - [Nick] Hey, guys, what's going on? - Nothing. - Mister art major here was trying to give me a little lesson in science versus creation. - Oh, yeah? Well, since you brought it up, that's my favorite subject. See, science doesn't conflict with creation until science steps out of science and into theology. But That's not the only evidence for God. - What do you mean? - In history, it's full of examples of God's interaction with people. I mean even today, Ross, we can know him through personal experience. - That's a little hard for me to swallow. - [Nick] It happens all the time, Ross. - Okay, so what's gonna happen to some native who's never even heard of God? Or what about a newborn baby that dies before it can even talk, huh? - God will judge everyone on what they know, Ross. I don't think a baby has anything to worry about. And a native's relationship with the Lord, that's up to him. God won't give anybody a bum rap. - What are you gonna tell God, Ross, when you have heard? - Okay, guys. Listen, if we're gonna do Half Dome, we better get started. - Let's go. - Let's do it. - [Woody] Half Dome, here we come! (upbeat music) - Xalton - Let's hold up. Ross needs a break. - Oh, careful, careful, careful. Oh, it's beautiful up here. You can see for miles. - [Ross] Isn't there an easier way up? - [Xalton] This is the easy way up. Unless you're into rock climbing, it's the only way up or down. - Which reminds me, take a look. Look how far the others are. - [Ross] I'd rather not. I don't feel so good. - Well, what you need is to just get your mind off it a little bit. How about another Bible question? Xalton here's an expert on the Bible. - I don't wanna talk abut the Bible. It's just a book. - Just a book? Xalton. - Just a book? Do you know it was written over a period of 1,600 years by 40 different men, from all walks of life and yet remains consistent throughout? - Well, if it's so consistent, why are there so many people with so many different interpretations of what it means? - Because every time you have two people, you've got at least three opinions. Don't hold that against the Bible, Ross. - That's true. In fact, most of the experts who've studied the subject agree on all the major points. And you can check it our yourself. The Bible is easier to verify than any other ancient book. - [Ross] That's just fascinating. - Yeah, it really is. We have copies of the Old Testament that have a thousand years between them, and they're almost exact in the translation. When you look at the New Testament, it gets even better. There are more than 4,000 of them still around, a lot of them written within the lifetime of people who knew Christ, and people still insist on criticizing the validity of the Bible. - Well, amen, brother. Now if you two guys don't mind, I'm a little tired of getting ganged up on. - You're right. I'm sorry, Ross. I have a tendency to get carried away on this particular subject. What do you say, guys? Let's get to the top. - You guys go on. I'll wait for the others. - Are you sure? Come on up with us, man. - No, no, that's okay. I need a rest anyways. - [Vince] Okay, fine. If you wanna leave the conquering of the mountain up to us, let's... Come on, Xalton. - [Xalton] All right, chief. Let's do it. (gentle music) - I can't believe I let you guys talk me into climbing up here. - It's gorgeous. I'm glad we made it. - All right, finally. Now let's get to going back, all right? - Back? What are you talking about? We just got here! - Don't listen to him. He doesn't realize normal people don't do this everyday. - Yo, Wood man, we still have a few miles to go to get back to the camp. It's gonna take a while for us to get down. - I don't care, Xalton. I'm not moving another inch until I rest a while. - [Ross] Man, if there is a God, he sure did a great job on this. - [Shawna] Well, if there is a God out there, I'm sure he appreciates the compliment. - [Ross] I admit when I'm in a place like this, it makes me wonder sometimes. - [Vince] Now we're getting somewhere. - [Ross] Now wait a minute. I didn't say I'd come to any conclusions. Besides, even if I were to agree that God does exist, what makes you think you know any more about him than anyone else? - [Shawna] Yeah, that's always bothered me too. I mean what makes Christians think that Jesus is the only way to God? - [Nick] We aren't the ones who said it. God did. Jesus said, "The only way to the father is through me." - [Vince] You can't just make up your own rules about God. - [Ross] I can't believe that God would be so exclusive as to rule others out. I mean show me a good reason why Christianity is any better than Buddhism, or Hinduism, or any other way to God. It's a big world, a lot of different ways to find him. - [Vince] Oh, there are a lot of different ways to find God, just like there are a lot of different ways to get down from this mountain. - [Ross] What are you talking about? - I'm talking about comparing what God said about finding him with what Xalton, our resident rock climbing expert says about getting down off this mountain. - [Ross] Come on, don't be ridiculous. - [Shawna] Vince, could you please step away from the edge? You could slip off. - But wait a minute, Shawna. You see Ross here says that there are more than one way to find God, so why can't I say there are more than one way off this mountain, like jumping, for example? - [Nick] Vince, this isn't very funny. - Come off it, man. You're going a little too far. - Listen, if you won't listen to God about God, why should I listen to Xalton about mountain climbing? - Okay, Vince, you proved your point. Are you happy? - No, I'm not happy because you haven't listened to a word I've said the whole time. And frankly, I'm getting kinda tired of it. - [Shawna] Vince, please, you're scaring me. - Come on, man, you're crazy. - You guys don't think I'm stupid enough to do this, do you? - Vince, no! - Gotcha. - Oh, man. That was not funny. - [Vince] I'm just trying to make a point, that's all. - [Shawna] Well, if your point was to scare us to death, it worked. - [Vince] No. Unless you're perfect, there's only one way to heaven, through Christ, just like there's only one safe way off this mountain, a trail. - [Nick] Well, let's take it before you come up with any more brilliant illustrations up here. (gentle music) - So when the game warden asked the grizzly what he was gonna take with him, he said, "Oh, not much, just the bear necessities." (laughs) Oh, next. (group laughs) - You're right, Woody, that was bad. - Ha-ha, buddy, your turn. - Go for it, do it. - Okay, all right. Okay, okay, let me see. All right, there was this farmer, right, who had these three daughters. And (chuckles) we'll do a different one. Okay, okay, this lady goes into a bar with a duck under her arm. And she sits down at the counter and there's a drunk there. And he looks over and he says, "Hey, what are you doing here with that pig?" And the lady says, "It's not a pig. "It's a duck." And the drunk says, "I was talking to the duck." (group laughs) - Okay, I got one, I got one. This is a scary story. This is called Hit and Run Harry at the Highway of Horror, submitted for your approval. A young couple-- - Vince, Vince, I don't wanna hear that one. Can we hear something else? - It's a good one, Shawna. Just hang on, this is good. A newlywed couple had broken down at the side of a road. The groom is changing the tire on the road's edge. - Vince, please. - This is good, listen, listen, listen. He's changing the tire on the road's edge. Harry spots them from down the road. He drives faster, closer, closer. He speeds up, faster, faster. Wham! - No, let me. - Shawna. What's the matter? - What's her problem? - Remember, it's her dad. - What do you mean? - Her dad got killed in a hit and run accident. - Oh. Great. I forgot about that. - He was a pastor too. - Oh, that's how God takes care of his people. I'm better off where I am. Good night. - I'm sorry. I know how you feel. - You couldn't. - Maybe... - It's okay, Xalton. She just needs a friend. I'll go. - You feel like talking? - I blew it. I not only failed to prove that God exists, but I just helped to confirm that it doesn't matter either way. - You gotta lighten up, Vince. It's not your job. It's the Holy Spirit that does the convincing. - If Ross just weren't so stubborn. - Aren't you being a little hard on him? - Yeah, maybe. I don't know why I'm being such an idiot. - Is there someone else that you're trying to prove God to? - No. Why? How'd you know? - I remember when I first accepted Christ. I had all kinds of doubts. I guess I see a lot of that in you. - Well, I know he's out there. And I know he loves me. But I can't help wondering sometimes. I mean don't you ever have your doubts? - Sure. We all have our doubts, buddy. Whenever I question the Lord, I just have to look around me, look up into the sky, look at the stars. It puts everything in the right perspective. - How's that? - It reminds me how small I am, how big he is. - But will Ross and Shawna ever understand that? - I sure hope so. Till they do, we need to pray for 'em and love 'em just the way they are. - Trish, are you awake? - Yeah. - You said before you were glad I came. - Yes, I did. You know, Shawna, we're really not that different from each other. - How can you say that when you can accept God and I can't? - Because I understand the way you feel. I used to blame God for all my problems too. - Well, isn't he responsible? I mean he made us, didn't he? - Yes, but God gave us the free will to choose between trusting in Him and trusting in ourselves. - And what about my father? He served God. He was on his way to help a little sick kid when he got killed. Of all people, why him? - I don't know. I've asked that question enough times myself. Don't tell Xalton that I told you this because he really doesn't like to talk about it. We had another brother, Jason. - What happened? - He died of leukemia. And he was six years older than Xalton, so I don't remember him very much. They were really very close. And what I do remember, he was really wonderful. - Just like my daddy. - You know, mom and dad used to say that he was really special to God, and they couldn't wait until Jason got old before he could bring him to heaven to live with him. - Did you believe that? - Why not? God loved him just like us. It really helped me to deal with the pain. - Why do we even have to have pain? - I don't know. Maybe so we can understand a little bit of the pain that Jesus went through for us. You can really trust him, Shawna. - I don't know, Trish. - You can. - Oh, do you look good. - Good morning. - You're looking good. Golden boy. - (grunts) The sun's come up. What is it, six o'clock or so? - Not quite. It's about 10 after nine. Hey, we're getting much too late a start, guys. - You're just in time for breakfast. Today's entree consists of light fluffy pancakes served with none other than pure maple syrup from Vermont. - Uh, Woody, I don't even think that maple syrup's gonna help these things. - Yeah, I sure hope Nick and Vince managed to catch a few fish. - Listen, I'm gonna start breaking camp, all right? - Break camp, buddy, break camp. Well, we have three more pancakes. - [Trish] Thanks, Woody, but I'm stuffed, - You know, these aren't so bad. Of course, if I was at home, I'd never touch them. - Thanks. Hey, but I understand there's just something about the great outdoors that makes things taste better. - Hey, it's psychology. I mean out here, you work up such an appetite that anything tastes good. - Oh, come on, no credit to the cook? (group laughs) Chalk one up for psychology. - Say, don't you think Christianity could be explained the same way? I mean couldn't God just be a crutch for people who need something to believe in? - Well, it used to be for me. I mean I just wanted to belong somewhere. And a lot of the things that I tried just made things worse. They hurt me. The more I partied, the more dope I smoked, the more I came up empty. But Jesus is a lot different than that. The closer I got to him, the more real He became. - Yeah, but I could feel the same thing about a wooden bull if I believed in it hard enough. - I don't know, but there's still a major difference. - What's that? - Okay. What if I told you that wearing these pancakes on my ears has totally changed my life. I feel peace, purpose, and contentment now. (girls giggle) - I'd say you're ready for the nut farm. - (chuckles) Maybe. But you cannot say that I do not feel these feelings. You can say, "Who else is turned on by pancakes? "How do I know it's the pancakes and not my imagination? "What facts prove what I'm talking about?" - What are you talking about? - Okay. Okay, in Christianity, a lot of different people from a lot of different backgrounds all say that it changed their life. And the fact is is that Jesus did arise from the dead. - How can you be so sure? - Check it out. Even Christ's main critics cannot deny what happened. I mean Jesus is alive. That's why the Christian experience isn't just a psychological crutch. - Two hours, no fish. - There better be some breakfast. I'm starving. - Well, we have pancakes. - Hey, come on, you guys. We're never gonna get to our second spot if you keep fooling around. - [Nick] Hey, Xalton, don't worry so much. We'll get there. Go ahead. - [Ross] As long as we don't die from total exhaustion. - [Trish] Yeah, well, be careful. There's a lot of cliffs around here. - Okay, Trish, we will. - Hey, Ross, you ever think about what's gonna happen to you when you die? - You mean heaven and hell and all that stuff? Not really. Besides, I've tried to live a pretty good life most of the time. Hey, if he grades on a curve, I'm in. - He doesn't. You can't get to heaven by just being good, Ross. God's standards are much higher than any of ours. - I thought you said he was fair. - Now that's where Jesus comes in. - Oh, not Jesus again. - Jesus is what life's all about as far as any of us are concerned. - He has to do with whether you're in or not. - Okay, let's hear it. - [Nick] Since all of us have blown it one way or another, God gave us a way out. He loves us so much that he sent his only son, Jesus to die for our sins. - [Vince] All we have to do is believe that, ask forgiveness, trust in Christ to save us, and then God can accept us. - [Ross] That's too easy. - [Vince] No, it's simple. It's not easy. - [Ross] Then it's too simple. Besides, what if you guys are wrong? You'll end up in the same place as me. - [Nick] Yeah, but Ross, what if we're right? - Let's go, boys and girls. Come on. - Oh, my legs. What say we rest here, and wait for the other guys. - Okay, fine. I'll go look for some water. - Oh, I need a place to sit. Oh, right here is fine. (girls scream) - [Girls] Get off! - Say, Nick... Any bears around here? - Oh, once in a while, but they generally don't eat people. - Great. - Hey, Ross, that's Indian Head up there. We hiked up that one time. - [Ross] Man, you guys are crazy. - You can say that again. - Man, you guys are crazy. - Hey, Ross, what happened to the knucklehead, huh? (Vince screams) - Halt. So you dare enter Nottingham Forest unprotected, eh? Well, you'll have to contribute to the poor fund if you wish to pass. - Oh, no, Nick, he's at it again. Let's go! - Halt (mumbles). ♪ God's calling ♪ ♪ You can feel it in your heart ♪ ♪ God's calling ♪ ♪ Don't let pride keep you apart ♪ ♪ God's calling ♪ ♪ He's calling out your name ♪ ♪ Don't turn a deaf ear ♪ ♪ God's calling ♪ ♪ Robin Hood, he gave to the poor ♪ ♪ Columbus sailed the sea ♪ ♪ The British are near, warned Paul Revere ♪ ♪ And Lincoln set men free ♪ ♪ Some are called to greatness ♪ ♪ And some are called to fame ♪ ♪ God says there's a calling ♪ ♪ That puts others all to shame ♪ ♪ It's simply trusting in the Lord ♪ ♪ By the power of his name ♪ ♪ God's calling ♪ ♪ You feel it in your heart ♪ ♪ God's calling ♪ ♪ Don't let pride keep you apart ♪ ♪ God's calling ♪ ♪ He's calling out your name ♪ (suspenseful music) - Nick, no, Nick! - I tell you, those guys, they should be here by now. - Maybe they found out who made the lunches and decided to wait until we finished them off. (Shawna laughs) - That's very funny considering those earrings you made for breakfast this morning. (Woody laughs) - Xalton's right. They should have caught up to us by now. - What should we do? - What do you say we have dessert and then we'll decide exactly what we're gonna do. - Hey, what if they're hurt? - Now wait a second. Don't start jumping to conclusions. Let's just wait a little while longer. - Yeah, Shawna's a nurse if we should need first aid. - You're a nurse? - Not yet. It's just my major. - Hey! - Hey, Xalton! Trish! - [Vince] It's no use. They can't hear us. There's no way we're gonna be able to get up there without help. - Nick! Come on, Nick! Answer me, man! I can't believe this is happening! - Well? - He's there. He's laying down there. He's not moving. I'm sorry about this, Ross. I'm sorry about this whole thing. How's your leg? - Not good at all. It's bleeding. And I think it's broken, but I'm afraid to check. - Let me look at it. (Ross grunts) It's broken. - Let me look. - No, just leave it till somebody can look at it later. (Ross grunts) Nick! Please, Nick, roll over! Come on! God, please help us. - You're gonna have to have enough faith for both of us on this one, brother. - Vince, Ross, hello? I really think we should go after them. - Yeah, she's right. It's gonna get dark soon. - Okay. Let's leave our packs here. Take the flashlights and some rope. - Don't forget first aid. - That's a good idea. We'll take it. Hopefully, we won't need it. - Oh, God, get me out of this and I promise I'll become a monk for the rest of my life. - You shouldn't say that unless you mean it. - [Ross] How do you now I don't? You haven't spent that much time trying to find out. - [Vince] What's that supposed to mean? - Listen, I may not know as much about the Bible as you and your friends, but it seems to me that Jesus is supposed to be a God of love and compassion. - He is. - Yeah? - Yeah. - Well, I haven't seen that much compassion in you lately. Ever since you accepted Christ, I felt like a second class citizen. - Well, I'm sorry, Ross. I just wanted you to know God like I do. - Yeah? If you really wanted to prove God to me, you would have done it with your actions, not just empty words. - You're right. I guess I was just pushing hard on you because I was secretly worried about slipping away from God myself. - Well, I'd say there's one thing you definitely slipped away from. - [Vince] What? - Man, your friends. - Look, if you give me another chance, I'll work on that one, Ross. - All right, I'll tell you what. This time, I'll help you out. - All right. - [Xalton] Ross, Vince! - Xalton! We're down here! - Are you guys okay? - This is a pretty serious situation. Ross broke his leg. And Nick's down there somewhere below. I think he's unconscious. I'm not sure. - All right, you guys hang in there. We'll see what we can do. - [Trish] What happened? Is everything okay? - No, Nick and Ross are hurt. - Badly? - I don't know. We're gonna need some help. - You know, even if we left right now, it's gonna at least take five or six hours to get back down again. - I know. Some of us have to stay here. - I will. - Actually, I was thinking Shawna and myself. She's the nurse, and I can get us down there. - Okay, then Trish and I will go to the ranger's station. - We probably won't be back until the morning. - Okay, take a flashlight. And you guys, be careful. - And before you guys go, don't you think you should, um... - [Trish] Pray? Yes. - Oh, man. Where am I? - I can't do this. - Don't worry. I'll guide you all the way. I just don't know enough about first aid. - I don't know, Xalton. - Trust me, Shawna. I won't let you go. All right, just smile and wish me luck. ♪ I'm walking on a spiritual tightrope ♪ ♪ Will I stand or will I fall ♪ ♪ I'm hanging on to empty air ♪ ♪ Supported by nothing at all ♪ ♪ My eyes are blinded by sin and by pride ♪ ♪ You tell me there's nowhere to hide ♪ ♪ I'll reach heaven on my own ♪ ♪ God knows I've tried ♪ ♪ I'm on the edge of eternity ♪ ♪ I'm on the edge but I just can't see ♪ Okay, you need to move down to that little rock. Good. Now this is gonna be the hardest part. You need to let go of the rock and lean back away from the cliff. - Are you crazy? If I let go of this rock, I'm gonna fall! - [Xalton] No, you won't. You won't fall as long as I have you. - I can't do this! - He's not gonna let you fall, Shawna. You all right? - Yeah. I just don't know if I can handle this. - Okay, look, Shawna, trust Xalton. He will not let you fall. ♪ I'm on the edge of eternity ♪ ♪ I'm on the edge but I just can't see ♪ ♪ I'm on the edge and I don't want to be ♪ ♪ On the edge ♪ - Got it. I got you, I got you. ♪ If you don't believe ♪ ♪ And forever be cast from his love and his peace ♪ ♪ I'm on the edge of eternity ♪ You're almost here. There you go. ♪ I'm on the edge but I just can't see ♪ Nice and slow. ♪ I'm on the edge and I don't want to be ♪ ♪ On the edge ♪ - [Vince] Down to my knee here. Feet down on the right. Straight here, all the way down. - [Xalton] Yeah, all right. Good girl. - [Vince] Nick! - Vince, is that you? What happened? - [Vince] Are you all right? - I think so. I hurt my arm, and I banged my head pretty good. - [Shawna] I'm so glad you're okay. Don't ever do that again! I do not wanna climb down another mountain! - [Xalton] Nick, I don't have enough rope to get down there. Will you be all right until help gets here tomorrow? - Yeah, I think so. Just throw me down a sleeping bag and some food. - [Ross] Hey, he must be okay if he's thinking about food. - Listen, guys, it's gonna be dark soon. We're not gonna be able to move Ross outta here with his leg like it is. - I'll stay here with him. - [Shawna] Speaking of which, let me look at your leg. Xalton, where's the first aid kit? - Oh, no. I'm joking. It's right here. It's right here. - [Ross] Funny guy. - [Xalton] Listen, guys, I'm gonna climb up to the top and get the rest of the stuff. You guys gonna be okay? - [Vince] Yeah, we'll be fine. - [Xalton] All right, need anything? Aspirin (mumbles). - [Vince] Good work, man. - Oh, great. Oh, man, I knew I should have brought new batteries. - Yeah, well, I know these trails pretty well, so I think we should be all right. Wait, I have a flashlight. - You have a flashlight? - Yes. You just press right there. You call this a flashlight? - Yeah, well, would you rather use yours? - Nevermind, let's use this mini flashlight. - It's some weekend, huh? - Yeah, you can say that again. You guys are good at that. - Thanks. I think. - Xalton. I wanna tell you something but I don't want you to tell the others - yet. - Yeah, okay. What is it? - Remember when I was holding on to the edge of the cliff and I didn't wanna let go? - Yeah, I mean it's pretty scary. You should have seen me my first time. - It's really scary. But the rope held just fine. - It better. It's rated up to 2,000 pounds. - But then there's my whole life. I didn't wanna let go of myself. I always blamed God for my father, for all the pain in my life. - He really cares about you. You know? I know. I'm more afraid to lean on Jesus than on that rope. - Listen, you can trust him, Shawna. He will never let you go. - Will you help me? - Of course I will. Boy, Nick, it's so good to see you. It's hard to believe... - you're all right after a fall like that. - [Nick] I'm just happy to be here. - [Woody] Hey, you can say that again. - [Woody] Your guardian angel must be working overtime. - [Shawna] You better not forget to write when we get back. I have a feeling I'm gonna have some questions for you. About, you know. - [Xalton] How could I forget a girl like you, Shawna? Whoa, come on now. Besides, Woody's right there at school. You're gonna have to tell him sometime. - I will but not right away. You see, I have somewhat of a reputation back there. - [Xalton] Hey, all the more reason to tell him. You're gonna need as much support at you can get. - Yeah, but it won't be easy. You know, somehow I look forward to it. - Hey, Ross. You're kinda quiet. - Yup. Yeah, I'm just thinking about how my basketball career is washed up for the season. We won't be able to beat you next week. - You didn't beat us last week or the week before that. - Yeah. Well, listen, Vince, I'm sorry I was riding you so hard about your faith. I mean I guess I didn't realize how important it was to you. - Yeah, I guess I didn't realize either. And listen, if anybody owes anybody an apology, it's me. I'm sorry for pushing you so hard. I just didn't want you to, I'm sorry. - That's okay. - So just one question. Did any of the stuff I said make you think about God more? - Yeah. It wasn't so much what you said but what happened. - And? - And I thought a little bit more about God, that's all. Look, some of your points were really good, but I'm just not ready for something like that, okay? - Okay. - [Ross] Truce? - [Vince] Truce. - All right. That doesn't mean we can't talk about it sometimes. - Oh, really? When? - Oh, man, you're pushing it. - [Vince] I'm kidding. I'm joking. ♪ How did you think ♪ ♪ That you were gonna get there ♪ ♪ By rolling on the dice ♪ ♪ There is no saints or sinners gonna help you ♪ ♪ To cross that great divide ♪ ♪ 'Cause now honey, honey, the Lord is mighty busy ♪ ♪ Trying to get their own self inside ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Now you've been told of shining streets of gold ♪ ♪ And life without a care ♪ ♪ Well, you better hope when God looks in His book ♪ ♪ That your name is written there, yes, he still is waiting ♪ ♪ To hear you say that prayer ♪ ♪ But now honey, honey, ask him for mercy ♪ ♪ He'll be waiting for you there ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Well, the Lord is waiting ♪ ♪ Even now he's waiting ♪ ♪ To come and be your guide ♪ ♪ Even though I'm hoping somebody's ears will open ♪ ♪ So I long to say what's right ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Well, the Lord is waiting ♪ ♪ Even now he's waiting ♪ ♪ To come and be your guide ♪ ♪ You know I'm hoping somebody's ears will open ♪ ♪ So I'm going to say it twice ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪ ♪ But honey, honey, God is mighty busy ♪ ♪ Who's gonna pay your price ♪