Transcript for The Pack (2009) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Listen, if you really believe your father testified, what a powerful mother would your father of sanctions work and planning to run for attorney general. What about the bomb threat? You really take this seriously. We've never been more severe. You said you're going to focus more on crime. This kills more people than all crimes put together. Are they related to a case for a terrorist attack? For protection? We're moving the case to a university location. If they are bomb threats, then doesn't that prove that this case is ridiculous? If they are related, it shows how volatile this issue is. Homeland Security University had the trial, too. What a waste of taxpayers money, huh? Huh? They should spend it to put us in a better place. I meant the trial. What do you do? Hardware store. And you? I published women's magazines. Publishing, huh? Hey, my son is writing a novel. Did you read The Post today? I supposed to read. I watched the local news. It was on the bus flying. I just read the headline, what it say. It said, Everyone's calling for Sheila Morgan's resignation. Why? Because this trial was an outrageous abuse of power, particularly when there are more important things to do. He said all that in the headline. This has been interesting. I mean, the issues. Did you? Yes. I didn't hear any issues. You know, they went with me to the bathroom. They're very helpful. I just think they thought I was going to escape. Yeah. Have you ever done this before me? No. Oh, nothing to worry about. Use that to keep things on track, that's all. I don't have your full name. Mona. Mona Bradley. Have you done this before? A few times. Maybe you should be performing. They voted for you, Mr. Ansen. I don't know why. So should I begin? Is everybody here? Yes. Go ahead, stop. If everyone could take their seats, please. Miss Ingram, if you could. Sorry. Since I am the foreman for person, for person, right, well, I've never done this before, so open it up for discussion. I'm going to open it up for discussion. Well, there's nothing to discuss. Why don't we all take a vote? We all go the same way that we can get out of here. Well, but Miss Wang here believes that a discussion is in order. You're the foreman. Not Wang. A discussion is usually the first thing, you know, a vote now might make things simpler. What do you do? I'm a scientist. I teach at Columbia. Oh, well, I guess a vote would be OK. All right. Well, does anyone have any objections? What are we voting on whether to acquit or convict? Eleanor Jordan? Well, you've been right here in the moment and you OK, everyone. We've been asked to decide if Eleanor Jordan is guilty of one of the three crimes described to us. Well, shouldn't we vote on each one separately, separately? We can still take a general vote that way. We can see what we're up against. Maybe there'll be nothing to discuss like this guy says, we can get the hell out of here. Are we inclined to acquit Eleanor Jordan of the three crimes of which she's been accused? Can we go over each crime? Sure. Yeah. Simon on line one. Oh, good luck. So how many pages of your read has been read it and. Yeah. No, no, no. I think I can actually get Joe to write a book about that. But I know this. No, no, no. Did you read the editorial in The Times this morning? It has. Yeah. Well, listen, let me let me call you out there over the weekend. All right. Good. So shall we go? I got to be back by one o'clock. OK. You sounded better today. That's not how he sounded to me. Always the pessimist, always in denial. Thanks. Don't thank me, I'm just telling you the truth, your truth. I'm just going to go see him myself. Oh, no, Jack. I'm sorry. Please. Let's just let's not fight. We're not fighting, we're just in separate worlds. Well, can't we do this together? It's a bit late, so crucify me. Thanks for the article. Will you even read it? I you've dismissed me my whole life. And there's the evidence. Look at it. Breathe it, do whatever you want. All I got to. Crop. Someone needs to stop Clearway Law. Public shouldn't leave reviews for lawyers. Miss Bradley, I guess, will do you first. What do you think? I think I'm hungry. I don't think it was any coffee and donuts at least, or something. I am dying for a cappuccino. Caffeine addict. Let's prosecute. She's a die for one, not killed for it. How do you vote? Acquittal. Mr. Cassidy? You know where I stand. It was that little. Of course, ma'am. I mean, not certain, sir. I'm from acquittal. Acquittal? Yeah. Acquittal. Mr. Murphy. What the hell do you think? Eloquent. Are you voting? Acquittal. You bet you Miss Ingram. I'm not certain, but I'm inclined to convict her. You're not serious? Yeah, I have some doubts. Oh, come on. Can we continue? Hey, who's the foreman? Mr. Jeffries? Well, I would be inclined to acquit Eleanor Jordan, but I would not mind talking griddle. Acquittal. OK. And how do you vote me? Oh, well, I wish I vote for acquittal. Miss Diego, have you if you decided, ma'am. I guess I had a quota. That's good, as in good girl. As in as in 11 votes for an acquittal and only one for a conviction. Well, now what do we do? Well, now we get to convince her to change her vote. So why are you so inclined to convict? Can't believe Elmau joins a criminal. Maybe, Professor Rimbaud, you teach it in courses. Oh, yeah. Yes. I teach the ethics of science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology at MIT. Yes. My focus is on the scientific method. I've analyzed the methods used to arrive at scientific conclusions. How would you explain to your students at M.I.T. what this trial is about? Objection, your honor. As Mr. Ranneberger lawyer, does your honor wish him to be defining what this trial is about? Miss Morgan, I have faith in the jury to decide what this trial is about with my guidance, of course. Overruled. Let's get on with this, Mr. Peterson. You may continue, Mr.. Excuse me, doctor. Remember? Actually, I prefer Mr. Sherman. One could reasonably argue that the scientific method is on trial here, along with a defendant, because if we put aside for a moment the emotions that surround death and disease and our feelings about tobacco, then it really all comes down to just one question. Can science prove a causal connection between the defendant's use of cigarets and the subsequent death of her husband from cancer? Now, these Jackley. Would you go get mommy smores, Eve, you're going to be here. Thank you. Jack? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, that's not everybody, I don't think. Take it easy. It's fine, Jack. Give me the camera, buddy. I mean, you can. All right. Come on. Stay with your mother now. Don't just stand with your mother. All right. It might be nice to be a nice, friendly family. All right. You're on the air around your mom. Come on. A little kiss, huh? There you go. Excellent. Excellent. Good. Scientists conduct experiments. But but in the end, all they can achieve is a set of probabilities. Certainty is very, very rare in science. Not that you would know that from listening to the scientists. Why don't you push up? Why did you push him? Please. If it was an act of love. OK, if Eleanor Jordan's husband could talk, do you really think he'd wants to put his wife in prison? Well, I don't think Mr. Jordan's opinions or loyalties are relevant. Right. OK, so we should review the elements. We should review the elements. Was the first crime again? Murder in the second degree. Now, give me a break. Can someone define elements, please? Parts of the crimes. Each part must be there for the crime to have been committed. And if only one part is missing, there is no crime. Mr. Rahmberg, can you give the court a simple example of the scientific method properly used to find a certain result? Yes, of course. Hold a tennis ball in your hand a few feet off the floor and drop it. The results are certain. And we observe that the tennis ball bounces and that it does so in strict accordance with the laws of physics. I'm glad you mentioned physics, Mr. Rahmberg. Are you aware of the laws of quantum mechanics? Specific jurors believe particles and objects can appear in more than one location, and we can only observe a particular location because of the high probability that that locations where it would be. Yes, it's the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle. Yes. It's fascinating stuff. Yes. And if this is true, Mr. Rahmberg, when you dropped the tennis ball, we can only observe the location of that tennis ball to comply with the laws of physics you mentioned only because of the high probability that such laws would be complied with. Yes, that's true. A man raises a gun and fires it into the chest of another human. You see a Mr. Rahmberg, you observe it. The victim dies instantly. The laws of physics and biology would tell us all that the victim dies as a direct cause of the bullet. Yes. Well, if we follow your line of reasoning, then then we cannot conclude that the victim died as a result of the gunshot wound. But you see, you are you're stretching the limits of science as as applied to what we call common sense. I take that to mean, Mr. Rahmberg, that quite possibly science has its limits in our halls of justice, that if we strictly apply our scientific method to our justice system, we can never conclude that any individual committed a crime. Yes. But again, science should be used properly as a framework for our common sense. And it's up to our jury here to exercise that common sense, Mr. Rahmberg being informed by science, by the facts, by the testimonies and notions of fairness that this trial will lead to justice. Yes, exactly. No further questions. It is a stretch. Think of the pollution cases. There's precedents for conviction of business executives when they pollute a river with consequences. Of illness and death. But it's not the same. A hundred years ago, dumping chemicals in a river would never be considered a crime. Politically, it would be unacceptable. Maybe I'm ahead of the public in this one, Jack, but I'll risk it. You know, you look bad if you win, you look bad if you lose two. A person is guilty of murder in the second degree. If. Under circumstances showing a depraved indifference to human life, he or she recklessly engages in such conduct as to create a grave risk of death for another person and which results in the death of such person. If that's what I'm for, so you can just point. We got to go. The only one who can write this book, so don't even go there. All right. Go, go down. Just tell me. Not throwing up from that chemo again. She blew smoke in his face. She certainly engaged in an activity that created a risk like drunk drivers. Everything in life creates a risk. Well, what does reconciling age really mean if one is aware of and consciously disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk? So the issue is whether Eleanor Jordan was aware of the risk she created. It's hard to believe that she was not aware that it was a risk. Why is that so hard? It's on every pack of cigarets says nothing about the risk of death. Actually, all it says is that cigarets contain carbon monoxide. If the risk doesn't have anything to do with death, it isn't a risk. This one says quitting smoking now greatly reduces serious risks. Yeah. What an understatement. Man, here it is. Another warning Smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease and emphysema. The one that warns about pregnancy and smoking. Not a problem for old men. Jordan, what's relevant is a pack of cigarets does not warn the smoker that it creates a risk for others. So the warning labels on the cigarets are irrelevant to this case. Your business is guilty of murder scene. And when I got pregnant, I was about twenty seven at the time. Everybody told me I shouldn't smoke, but my doctor said his mother smoked when she was pregnant. And if the stress in quitting was too much, then maybe I shouldn't even try. I see. I didn't know what he was talking about. The stress and quitting. I mean, I figured you just stop. So I put my cigarets away and that's when I noticed I didn't feel right. And obviously, Cigarets had something in them that kept you a certain way. You know. And that's when I started to see them as more than just something to do with my hands. So I really stopped. I didn't smoke for a whole week. It was too much. So I started again. Maybe she didn't take him seriously when a son came home and told her, maybe she didn't want to know, but she certainly had to be aware of the possibility, the possibility and the risk they go on the same family, even if she knew smoking was bad, doesn't mean she knew she was creating a risk to other bank or that there even is any risk. Look, I don't believe any of the junk science that was presented at the trial. Do I? Right. And we can see exactly what youth we wanted to believe. It's not enough that she was aware she was creating a risk. She had to be aware she was creating a grave risk. Thank you. So it's a coincidence that the three of you all smoke. That's irrelevant. Irrelevant as it is that you miss Ingram and you miss Gifford, don't smoke. The information's been in The New York Times almost every day for years. What's been in The New York Times stories? You can get stories that prove studies about this. You get stories, a Pew study about that. Until recently, if you ate eggs, you got high cholesterol and it died from hardening of the arteries. And now they've done a double blind study that concludes you can eat as many eggs as you like. Exactly. Because something is printed in The New York Times. How significant is that? Well, let everybody reads The New York Times. Really? Can you even read how much Hassan testified that she subscribed to The Times for 12 years? Her son did not testify. She read any articles about tobacco. He is cute. Thank you. We're not going to go with this, Chuck, unless you're with us 100 percent of the way to. OK, you realize people were like, what are you doing? I don't care. Maybe someday you'll tell us what's really going on in that head of yours. I want his just to make a difference. Actually, his life did make a difference. He was a great pianist and composer, and George wanted to have it in the closet not to know the dangers of second hand tobacco smoke. Is there any reason to conclude that she's ignorant or illiterate? She may have engaged in conduct which created some risk, but that does not constitute a grave risk of death. Let's not waste our time. So the fine. Grave risk, please. Why aren't we making the connections? So many scientists are advertised as a scientist, missing groom. One might make a distinction between good and bad science and bad science is often co-opted by the political system to sell a point of view. And I suppose all the studies that say that secondhand smoke causes cancer is bad science and all those that debunk it are good science. All right. All right. Now, maybe Eleanor Jordan made a substantial risk. That still doesn't mean she's guilty of murder. But what about the other elements, murder in the second degree also requires that a person have a depraved indifference to human life. Now you sing Eleanor Jones the parade in Seemed Parade. She sang well, I wasn't perfect, but I think she at least cared for her family. She was devoted to him. I think we have you there. Anyone who smokes is depraved. What about anyone who promotes tobacco? What are you, a saint? She's a damn schoolteacher. What do you teach? Phys ed physics. There are. They have exactly the same stakes. Hey, Zach, what am I going to do here? Yeah, he likes you. He totally like that. OK, I will like him. I just don't want it to be about any person. Now my students aspire to be the men and women in your magazines. Many of them get hooked on cigarets for life. Does anyone consider taking responsibility for one's own actions? I mean, let's ban butcher knife from every kitchen because butcher knives not only cut me, but they cut people. Let's ban automobiles because people get hit by Coors. Let's ban everything. This case is not about banning anything. It's about personal responsibility. We are having an ethical and philosophical debate when we should be discussing causation of provable scientific connection between the defendant's actions and her husband's death. I would think that a high school physics teacher would appreciate the issue of causation. I'm with you there. Didn't the judge give us examples of depraved indifference to human life? Right. Like if someone shot a gun off into a crowded ballroom with people drinking beer or somebody open the cage of a dangerous animal at the zoo, they banned smoking from the zoos to protect the animals from secondhand smoke. You're joking. Look, firing a gun into a crowded ballroom is not the same thing as smoking a pack of cigarets. Wake up. We're doing the second degree doesn't seem to apply. Thank you, Miss Ingram. OK, I'll go along with that. So everybody agree to have it shove him. What's the next lesser crime manslaughter and the second degree is exactly the same as murder in the second degree, except it doesn't include a depraved indifference to human life. But he or she recklessly causes the death of another person. I can't believe the judge didn't dismiss the murder two counts because it's so obvious there's no immediate risk of death. We didn't need a murder to Massachusetts like a glove. Oh. I was going to fall back on, they fall right into manslaughter, too. OK, well, good. But didn't we already go through all the other elements and agree that they applied? Are you people serious when somebody turned a light on in here? This whole trial is a result of a sick kid who hates his mother. Maybe he loves his father. Does his motive really matter? Hey, Jack Adobe like you doing? How are you doing Dutch angles now, check it out. I'll check out our movie Sunbaking. Dutch here. Shoot your mouth, Magufuli. Well, Sheila Cronenberg, I play. Give me the camera al-Shami. Like, oh, I got. All right. Let's watch Jack. You're always shooting. I mean, we should shoot you eating all the time. See how it feels to have the camera on you. Oh, look up. Oh, now there's a lovely cigaret smile. Look at the yellow teeth. See the time I can't see time, Jackie, only experience. Then I tell you to wake me up by nine. That's the problem, Jack. You ask me, instructed me, for Christ's sake, Angela, were lovers were like, you know, monogamous, which means we're supposed to support each other. We're like monogamous dog. Is that the same thing as being truly, totally monogamous? I'm testifying today, Angela. I have to be at the courthouse by nine. Do you know that your mother and my mother talk to each other? What? My mother, when I mean how they met once, twice, Jack. Your mom thinks this whole thing is your fault and she thinks or she thinks you started the whole thing. What? That's bullshit. You think I like this? You think watching my mother being dragged through criminal court is something I want? Your mom thinks so. She's paranoid, it's guilt talking. Why did you agree to testify against her? I don't have a choice. Prosecutors are making me do it. You were never subpoenaed. You want to talk about this now? You want to engage me in a debate about this now? After all this time, I didn't mean to upset you. I'm sorry. Well, you did. I'm sorry. More than OK. Do you want to go to my place tonight or do you want to stay here tonight? God, you're beautiful. Here, if you don't mind, well, then, OK, I want to get to the truth. Follow the money and the money leads right to the son of the old lady goes to jail. Didn't you hear there's no money. The insurance contract is revoked. It's not clear whether the contract is revoked once you're listening. Whether the son is getting money or not is not particularly relevant to whether or not Eleanor Jordan committed a crime. It's a criminal case. He can't get any money. Son testifying against his mother. I sure hope it's about more than money, Mr. Jordan. You would have us believe that you wish to punish your mother because of cigarets. Let's be honest. What did your mother really do to you that caused you to go on this crusade, this tasteless public crusade of revenge? Certainly not her smoking. Objection, your honor. The prosecution is goading the witness. Overruled, and I'll hear this answer. I love my mother. But I. I loved my. Oh, would you please speak up? We can't hear you. I love my mother. But I loved. My father to. I believe her smoking killed him. Is it not true that your father's insurance policy named your mother the sole beneficiary? Tell me about the insurance. There is nothing to tell you already told me there is no money in a criminal case and any money I get from anything related to this case . So donate to charity. I could care less. She got him to put everything in her name only. I would love to know what she did to you. Her blindness fuels me. So what happens when you're an addict? It poisons everything she did. My father was a weak man when it came to her. He loved her very much. And she got away with everything. Can we turn it down or give me a headache? Neighbor on the back. Please do something, I can't take it anymore. She started when she was very young and she didn't think much about it until she got pregnant and that only lasted one week. She tried to quit on her son's birthday, so maybe she shouldn't disregard the risk. So she was aware of the risks of smoking to herself. It doesn't prove that she was aware of the risks of smoking to others. The newspapers remember she knew it was harmful to her, so she probably knew it was harmful to her husband as well. There have been front page articles about secondhand smoke now for decades. I've seen them. We've all seen them. The testimony shows that she saw them. So what doesn't prove anything? What the hell would prove something to you? Real scientific evidence. Can we get that? Where did you get your degree, Mr. Gund from? Harvard University. And how many years have you been an environmental pathologist? Seventeen years, Mr. Gunn. How many public buildings and private houses have you assessed for the presence of carcinogenic chemicals? Hundreds. Did you inspect the Jordan home and the school where Mr. Jordan taught music for the past twenty five years? Yes, I did. And what were your findings? There were no carcinogenic chemicals in the workplace. Tell us what you tested for. Radon, asbestos and lead in the water, air and walls and tobacco smoke. None in Mr. Jordan's place of business. How do you know this? I tested the air and chips of paint for the wall, and I investigated the people who worked there and the Jordan residents. There were residue chemicals in the paint, chips, clothing, drapes and in the furniture. These chemicals are all products of burning tobacco. What are they? Acetone, ammonia, arsenic, butane, DDT, ethanol, formaldehyde, hexa. Mean hydrogen cyanide. Hexton mean and hydrogen cyanide. Barbecue lighter and gas chamber poison does in 20 milligrams of nicotine kill an adult person? Absolutely. Do you usually check for tobacco smoke when you check a site? Not usually, no. This was a novel request. Poor woman is trying to conquer an addiction and keep it away from her husband, and you people are going to hold it against her, for Christ's sakes. Just shows she knew he didn't like it. Not that it was bad for him. More Americans die from ettes than AIDS. Sure. A lot of spouses want to look at it that way. Who cares what your spouse thinks? Look, nobody dies from environmental tobacco smoke. Nobody dies from cigarets. They die from cancer and heart disease. So for that matter, nobody dies of AIDS either, right? Don't they die from pneumonia or whatever else you get because they had AIDS. Yeah. Well, less people die from smoking than don't. What does that mean? That we ought to scientifically figure out why some people get lung cancer and why some don't? So we can sanction people's bad habits. Why do you have to sanction everything? Some things need to be. Look, I smoke sometimes. I don't inhale. I like it. Sometimes I smoke. A cigar hangs. Put him in jail. He's creating etes. Mr. Murphy, please. Could you put that out? I'm about done. You know, this notion that people die from environmental tobacco smoke is really speculation. And the studies that show the connection or what I call very soft in science is more anecdotal than hard proof. I would argue that it's common sense, and I refuse to believe those statistics anyway. Of course you do. Okay. I'm going to kill this one now from the National Institute of Health. The EPA, it's been plastered everywhere. I wouldn't rely on government statistics. They're not immune to political pressures and cultural demands. And they don't prove Eleanor Jordan killed her husband. But I don't think they have to. They don't they just have to prove that the risk was substantial and that she disregarded it. And is it not a fact that these high levels of radiation, even in one dose, can result in cancer later in life? It would be extremely unusual, but it can happen. Yes. If the dosage is strong enough and one of the types of cancer that's caused is lung cancer. Yes. One of the types. So it is possible that at some time in his entire life, Mr. Jordan could have inar one of these public buildings or private homes that had high radiation. It's possible, but unlikely. But it could happen. Yes. And as far as this list actually sign and you know that deadly chemicals and the not so deadly chemicals, I mean, aren't these the same chemicals that we find in automobile exhaust? Not all of them. Some of them, yes. So it's possible that if a window were opened in the Jordan hole and a truck comes by with a broken muffler, these chemicals could find their way into the Jordan hole. Well, yes, it's possible, but you wouldn't find such concentrated residues and you wouldn't find higher amounts in the rooms that Mrs. Jordan smoked most. I have no further questions. Thank you, Mr. Gunn. You may be excused. What would be causing lung cancer in so many cases where people who don't smoke but are around it? What? We're not here to decide that lady. No, in a way, we are. I think the lady is right. Shall we move on then? As I say, you don't like. And move on to what? Lunch. I need a cigaret. I vote for letting this guy go to lunch and kill himself, even if it's in your head. Yeah. Can you come and see me after class about your exam? You just fine, I just stop. The second essay to help put me away. Oh, my. Ma'am, please raise your right hand. Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? I do. Dr. Lin, would you please give us your credentials? I'm a senior attending lung surgeon at Sloan Kettering Hospital in New York. I'm also a professor of medicine at WHILE Medical College at Cornell. And I've had three books published, all dealing with the ideology of lung cancer and other cancers. As a recognized medical expert. Dr. Lin, would you please give us your professional opinion on what effect one lit cigaret has on an innocent bystander? One cigaret in a room at least four times the size will contaminate that entire space within three minutes. Everyone in the room will get nicotine in their blood after one breath. So what the hell is your point? Well, she disregarded the risk like every smoker who lights up around anyone does. You don't know shit about addiction. I'm just a little bitter. Mr. Murphy, I have every right to be so shut up. And 10 to 19 cigarets a day increases the risk of breast cancer five fold. And what does smoking around young girls have to do with Mr. Jordan's lung cancer, Dr. Lin? Secondhand smoke increases your chances of contracting lung cancer, breast cancer, heart disease and many other deadly diseases. It's all connected. The studies are all out there. So Mr. Jordan's love and Jack Junior's long, for that matter, were constantly contaminated for years by Eleanor Jordans second hand smoke. Of course, Jack Junior could contract lung cancer somewhere down the line, even if he never smokes. Objection, your honor. Speculation? Exactly. Addicted or not? Eleanor Jordan created a substantial and unjustifiable risk. She was aware of it. She disregarded it. And it resulted in the death of Mr. Jordan. And that's substantial and unjustifiable bullshit. If a heroin addict kills for money to support his habit, would you say that's justifiable? I believe what the law is getting at is if someone does something very risky and dangerous, it does it for a justifiable reason, like to save someone's life . Then he's excused. Even if someone dies in the process. It's certainly not the case with Eleanor feeding her own addiction. Well, this is all irrelevant because there's no way I'm convicting this woman. You have a responsibility to discuss this openly. Mr. Cassidy, I'm not going to sit here and allow you to convict a woman who had no intention of killing her husband, no matter what argument you people think you can support for me to do something like convicting my own father. Well, the forty five other million Americans who smoke some smooth talking prosecutors try to manipulate us. But you people can't see the big picture. What is the big picture, Mr. Cassidy? You ball busting bitch, don't you? Hey, I'm good to. This is not some saloon here. Let's not get personal. But maybe he's got a point. Their sound or fury scare me, Mr. Cassidy. You know, we're not permitted to leave until the case is decided. Well, what if we don't finish tonight? Then we're sequestered. Excuse me, but I really got to pee. Yes, we're taking a short break. So you're into this cause, huh? Cause. Yeah, the the anti tobacco cause I'm not a joiner. Yeah, I know what you mean. You know, I think that's why it took me so long to quit. I wasn't going to quit because all these people around me were and the culture kind of shifted and. You know, I started to notice that I was spending too much time in these doorways, just huddling just in the freezing rain, the smoke and all these people that was getting violent or their rights to smoking kids with braces and pimples, they're smoking because they think it's cool. I'm like, well, I'm going to bring you here. So now I'm into Wales. Wells. You go to demonstrations. I went to one. It was when I was on kitchen in London was a Greenpeace rally and about a thousand people showed up. Somebody at the rally said that 5000 whales are slaughtered every year. The thousand people showed up for 5000 wells. You know, these young people, I don't know. Oh, that woman. She makes a point of view, without a doubt. And you know, you know, my mind, I didn't make up yet. Everybody has their things that things that things to defend, to prove something about. Oh, yes. Yes. I have only a few things left. No wife. Another child. Sometimes the truth is easier to see when you have no things, no ties, like when you're a young child. You know, the two ends of life, you arrive with nothing and you leave with nothing. Lest. The shoe, the hair. The more you see. What do you see? OK. OK. You read in high school about the Indians. Tobacco was their ritual. It wasn't a big deal. It said tobacco was a ceremony of planned only harmful when used by the addict. We got a lot of addicts today and big corporations to fuel them. People need something, if not this what? I'm still busy these days, it's too fast. The world is is heating up. Maybe we're missing something. Maybe only children and us old people should be serving on juries. At least we understand each other. They're just cigarets. I was smoking cigarets. When did you start smoking? Oh, I was I think I had my first cigaret when I was 10. A camp, I think I bought them probably the first time in the eleventh grade just to have them around, you know, because, well, everybody smoked after school or when you had a beer. Why did you start smoking? I mean, it was a thing to do. Everybody did it. My mother did it. My father did it. Lauren Bacall did it. Audrey Hepburn. No harm was intended. It wasn't a drug. Do you remember when it became an everyday habit? Oh, I guess sometime in college I started to smoke every day to get. So you just need to do it with certain things, you know, with your morning coffee after you eat with a cocktail. Right after sex. Sometimes I'd pick up my cigarets before I'd even answer the phone. You know, you're not the only one who's lost someone sending me to prison isn't going to bring him back. It's not up to you anymore. Jack, I just wish that you could stand in my shoes. No, you you stand in his shoes. Fine. Do what you have to. Mr. Jordan's family had no history of lung cancer. No. No history of any other type of cancer. No, they did not. How long have you been the family doctor? Thirty seven years. Mr. Jordan never smoked? Not that I'm aware of. Did you ever warn Eleanor Jordan about smoking cigarets? Yes. What did you tell her she should stop? Why do I have to answer this? She must have had some idea about what might happen to her if she continued to smoke. I thought she would become ill. And how did she respond to your words of wisdom? You're a doctor. So was it fair to assume that, Eleanor? Objection, your honor. Sustained. Will the prosecution please get to the point? Yes, Your Honor. How did Eleanor Jordan respond to your warning? I think she said she would try to stop. Did you warn her about smoking around her husband? No. No. Why not? I thought it would be consequential. How about her son? I'm sorry. Did you think that her smoking would harm her child? Well, perhaps for maybe, sir, Dr. Hurst, if it would hurt her child, wouldn't it follow that it might hurt her husband? Not necessarily. Not necessarily, no. You mean it never crossed your mind? Might have crossed my mind, but that does not make it a fact. Why don't you look at it like coming to terms with this death? Because this is about more than that. Chicken. I'm sorry. I am. You're right. There is no going back. You spoke, doctor. Oh, no, I don't. Do you ever smoke? Yes. Every smoke around children. Objection, your honor. Irrelevant. Overruled. Thank you. No further questions. Oh, well. Right, right, right. Yeah. Oh, wow. Oh, OK. OK. Mommy, daddy. Oh, hey. Oh, God. Hey, buddy. It's. All the cameras, honey. Oh, oh, hey. I have to get something. I wonder if her son's going to get lung cancer eventually, too. He deserves it after what he put his mother through. What about him? What about what he's gone through? I think we're going off here. No, no, no. Maybe we are not. Maybe we are doing what we are supposed to be doing. And we thank you. Why won't you acknowledge that Mrs. Jordan's smoking might have added considerably to her husband getting lung cancer? We are dealing with speculation, not saying exactly. We as a jury are asked to speculate, which I believe means to use one powers of conception and judgment and inference. That is the difference between a law and science. Science requires certainty. The law only requires beyond a reasonable doubt. We can't be experts about everything. And why don't we have a responsibility to know the truth and to inquire about the reliability of our sources? Well, then we should all go to MIT or Harvard. Is that where you went? Oh, well, in nineteen fifty three, Winder, a research scientist at Sloan Kettering, published his findings, condensate taken from cigaret, smoke painted on the backs of mice caused malignant tumors to develop. But the earliest warning that I know of was Luther Burbank, a botanist who said that smoking is nothing more or less than a slow but sure lingering form of suicide. And that was the early nineteen hundreds smokers lung. He started in high school, smoked on and off for twenty seven years, pack a day emphysema detected at 43. Stop smoking at 45. Lung cancer identified at 54. Your Honor, I object to the submission of this testimony. There's no foundation established. We have no idea who these people overruled. This is a healthy woman, Slurm, a wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother. No one in the family or home smoked. She died at ninety seven. Now this is Mr. Jordan's lung. And as you know, he never smoked and he died of lung cancer. For the record, I object again. Could you believe the son that cut up his own father so he could throw his mother in jail all this time for one of your magazines? Well, I could just see the Cigaret ads in between. You don't know anything about what I do or why I do it. Right. Autopsy proof that there was residue of tar found in Mr. Jordan and his testicles and brain tissue, traces of nicotine, all of his body. The scar tissue was grotesque. My roommate, she's a smoker and she would die if she could see the gonk that that doctor wiped from his lungs. Maybe he should sue your roommate for attempted murder. So there is a connection. It's a joke. What's wrong with you people? You have no sense of humor. I'm working on my sense of humor for black lungs and heart disease. Blame this on the D.A.. Maybe smokers should put two and two together. No, I'll be hungover in the morning. Sheila never told me why everyone wants to blame Big Daddy corporation governments, but not one individual wants to own up to anything. Most of those people that lined up against big tobacco, they went home, kept right on smoking. So it's you was me, this case. She was a fan of your dad's. You did all the research. She has a great job. She wants attorney general. Next election. I'm sorry. The new job. Yeah. How is it? It's exciting. It's kind of scary, though, you know, because it's my first big break. New York magazine hardly a place for an aspiring journalist. I'm not really sure I understand that subtext, are you not happy for me? No, I'm I'm happy for you. It's just that. What I know how you got the job you do. Well, how is that? The publisher of your employer is a friend of my mother. You know, I don't think you know anything, Jack. I don't think that you have a grip on reality at all. Don't talk to me about you. Lower your voice. Listen, I think that your mother is really intelligent. All right, she is hardworking. She has a respect of the entire publishing community. And I don't think that I did anything wrong by asking her to make a phone call for me. Did you read that article? What article? The one in your new magazine that you worked for. Did you read what they said about me? He called me a failed filmmaker who now can't even make it as a photographer. He called me a failure and said that I am jealous of my own mother and that this jealousy is somehow driving me to bury her with this prosecution. You telling me you didn't read that because it's not like you, Angela. Not to do your homework. I read it. OK, so I didn't have anything to do with that article. Will you marry me? What? Oh, my God. This is really interesting. Do you really think I'm going to believe that you mean that? Of course. You say you love me. I say I love you. It's self-evident. This is a test. The only reason you're asking me that is because, you know, I'm going to say no. I don't know that. In fact, I'm surprised. Surprised, you know, I'm not ready for marriage. The only reason you're asking me that is because you want to sabotage this relationship. You want to use my refusal to accept your offer of marriage as a reason to walk away. I think that you're upset about my new job, and I think it's confused in your head about where my loyalties are to you and your mom. And that's stupid article. You know what? I think that you need to sober up and try not to destroy another relationship. What does that mean? I don't know. I don't know what I mean, I don't know what I mean anymore. Excuse me. Excuse me. Can I have a glass of wine, please? Thanks. You're accusing me of destroying my relationship with my mother, aren't you? Actually, excuse me, can we get a bottle of wine, please? You don't mind, do you? Why don't we do this, you have an evening with a bottle of wine, your favorite companion and I will spend an evening with myself. Your favorite companion? Come on, I'm sorry. I just I thought it was a clever comeback. My sister's is ain't nobody has been this bad dude. Got a sign on the door, says, you don't like my smoke. Stop, are you? But sometimes when I'm doing it, I think this is nuts. I'm just sitting there with my cigaret between these two fingers and it's on fire and I'm looking at it like it's some magical thing. I took a drag on it and I'm filling up my lungs with this poison and it's coming out of my nostrils. I must look awful. Smoke coming out of your nostrils can't look right. And so I think this is something a better step. But then. My mind's, which is JOUS, you know, among those channels of and I just do it all over again. Excuse me, but it appears the prosecution does not have to prove an actual connection, just that it was reasonably foreseeable, right. Reasonably foreseeable, beyond a reasonable doubt. Is there any doubt at all that this wasn't reasonably foreseeable? Does anyone else think she's guilty? Are you people from this planet, you convict this woman, you got forty five, they know the crooks just out there running free. That's almost a third of the population. Hello. A third of the population is not a standard. I used to steal my mother's boss's cigarets. She was so elegant like Hollywood. Hollywood loves tobacco. Hollywood is set back, then put Hollywood on trial, not Eleanor Jordan. You can't do this. You can't do that. What's next? Peanut butter, hamburgers. OK, so then let everyone speed, pollute, dump. You want to take away our rights and about rights or freedom? It's about the golden rule. You wanted to convict her from the time that you walked in here. You wanted to acquit her from the moment you walked in here. Whatever we do, it's going to have big consequences. Someone close to you die cancer or something. I can't allow you to use this form to air your personal grudges and be a part of it. I am not airing my personal grudges. I know why and how she did it. But that's not free her from responsibility. Not that. Many people who know far less have stopped smoking permanently. They realize the substantial risk of smoking and of inhaling smoke. OK, but isn't it true that more people fail than succeed in spite of what they know? Yes. Why is that? Because nicotine is far more addictive than cocaine or heroin. Any other reason? Well, most cigaret smokers suffer from not only a physical addiction, but also a psychological one. So these two addictions lock together, make it virtually impossible to quit smoking. Oh, no, not impossible. Extremely difficult. It's far more difficult to die of lung cancer. Just answer my question. Yes, it's difficult. But thank you very much. No further questions, Your Honor. Tobacco companies are taking the blame. They're losing in settling cases all over the place. Isn't it convenient to keep blaming everybody else for our actions? Oh, we agree. So you wasn't depraved and perhaps didn't have awareness or at least never intended to harm a husband. But do we agree that she created a grave risk that resulted in or caused the death of her husband? The judge will probably be shocked if we can, Victor. Judge, probably just give a slap on the wrist, make a do community service, something like that. Wow, it really get tense in there, huh? Always feels that way when you're in the middle of it. I mean, people scream and yell, but eventually a moment occurs. You'd be a brief moment. But in a car where everyone sees a common ground, you have to capitalize on that moment. People's energies will be down and be tired of fighting that point. You can force a consensus. I guess I just thought it would be more of a rational discussion and we would arrive at a decision, you know the truth. This is not about truth. It's about personal interest and politics and politics. I thought this was about justice. People do politics. God does justice. Manslaughter is too severe. The elements fit as a feel, right? You fanaticism, no cell, but you're a closet smoker. Somebody's got them business. What I do. Really? How else are we supposed to interpret your opinions? Interpret my opinions. That was that supposed to mean. Look, miss, whatever your name is. Don't try to psychoanalyze me, OK? This isn't group therapy. And I'm not on trial here. I'm having doubts that justice can come from this room filled with 12 angry jurors. I'm not angry, Mr. Epstein. And you did say your father smoked. I did not. I think you did. I didn't say my father smoked because I don't have a father punch in nosy people. I met my brother. And you know what? So what of it? I'm just measured as all. OK, now you're going to try and put my brother on trial here. You see what your people are doing. Look at how you've drifted. You came in here with common sense, but you're all leaving brainwashed. So did he stop? He's dead. And whether or not I get lung cancer, he'll never be a murderer. Two packs a day. My mom sort of stressed out by the situation, lit up. Do you think your father loved your mother? Very much so. Did your mother love your father? Sometimes I wonder. What do you mean by that? Well. I wonder. How she could have loved him as much. As she said she did, and constantly blow smoke in space. Did she ever try and quit? Yeah, she did. But but but she always left the cigarets. Take precedent. Precedence over what? Everything. Over dad for our health. Over me. Thank you, Jack. No further questions. Things change society sometimes in change, smooth, and sometimes it jerks along and some somebody's gonna get hurt. Everet, spare me the philosophy, OK? I want to vote. We'll start with you. You know. I can't remember one time we made love and you haven't lit up before and after. Unless there's no break and he just burns throughout, what are you doing? And I don't want to be an accomplice anymore. There is like a companion. Wow. That's the reliable. I don't want to compete with a drug. It's too depressing to quit. You know, if I need one right now, you should support me and not if I love you. It's not that simple. You know, I'm going to hang around and watch you quietly puff away while you drive your coffin, nails India, ready for what I call myself your lover and your husband to be. What is that? Is that an ultimatum? Well, then we sold our home. It was very emotional for me, and while I was saddled with the task of triaging, packing up decades of stuff, it was completely overwhelming. And I realized as I stood there surrounded by all these boxes and packing supplies, that this is the first time I had ever undertaken a major task like that without my cigarets there to take the edge off, you know. So a quick trip to the corner store. And I was able to start making some sense out of it again. I, I felt so guilty that I kept the pack in the glove compartment of my car. And of course, my son found them. He was very upset. I think he took it personally because I had quit smoking on his birthday. He considered it my gift to him. Your Honor. No further questions. So what else do you suggest the late Mr. Jordan should have done to get you to stop? Put you in a straitjacket? I don't know. Perhaps, perhaps what? Perhaps he should have given me a real ultimatum. Well, given your dedication to yourself, you're burning cigarets on your literary career. Do you really think an ultimatum would have made you stop smoking permanently? Honestly. Sheila? I don't know. I would like to think so. Someone leaves an infant sitting on a windowsill, five flights up. And she falls. That's manslaughter in the second degree. No doubt she was going to fall. But if you leave a window open and you leave the child in the next room alone, fully intending to go back in and check on her, but somehow she makes it into the room with the open window and falls. That's criminally negligent homicide. One is outright playing with fire. The other. She can still be found guilty of criminally negligent homicide, even if she wasn't aware of the risks she made. Criminally negligent homicide needs substantial risk, no awareness. I know I got to fair. All right, all right, all right, I'll pick him up. Oh, gosh, Jack. All right, all right, all right. How do you think you guys did? And do you think the biggest mistake you you know, when you figure out is your. How? How. Oh. Oh, sorry. Oh, I know. Oh, I don't want to do that. It's a mistake. No, there's nothing to explain. We all want to know what's driving your son. Everybody's focused on your tobacco use. Look, my son thinks I neglected him. Thanks. I was working. We weren't I don't we never we weren't connected. And. I was tough, maybe I wasn't very forgiving. Did you ever hit him? No, my husband was the sensitive one, or he always sided with Jackie. I was the one who had to enforce the rules. We have to couch this in more simple terms, you know, neglect, abuse. Abuse. Right, listen, you're a working mother. You're busy. Maybe you're a bit excessive with the discipline. You employed corporal punishment at a time in his life when he was somewhat sensitive about young adolescent. This would explain to the jury why he's on this crusade. I don't know, Jordan. I know this is difficult for you, but you've decided to take the stand again and then attempt to explain to all of us, including the jury, something that we've all been wondering. And that is the answer to a simple question. Why would a son testify against his own mother? Willingly, earnestly, almost gleefully, in an attempt to convict her of a crime that many of us here feel is bogus. Why this vendetta? Could you please tell us why your son would do this? Conjecture, Your Honor, you raise the issue denied continued assertion. Well. My husband was a very loving father, but he was always the lenient one, and I was always the one who had to set the rules, you know, provide the discipline. And our son. Since he was very little, has had problems been somewhat difficult. He often got into trouble in school and his friends. Well, many of them were the problem kids in the neighborhood. I once found drugs, pills in his room, and I was concerned, I was very concerned. So I restricted his hours and I prevented him from associating with the kids that I thought were the bad influence. Did you ever hit him? Once, once. I yelled at him in front of some of his friends in the neighborhood, and he got so mad, he was so rude. I slapped him in the face in front of his friends. I don't I don't think he ever forgave me. And he pretty much excluded me from his life after that. I think he's still trying to punish me for that incident. No way. I'm not going to let what she said in the press. Oh, all right. We will let your mother's testimony stand the way it is. The issue is your mother's action, OK? I'm going to go with criminal negligence. We will be sending a message. Well, I'm not sending messages. I just want to do the thing. That's right. OK, let's vote. Those in favor of criminally negligent homicide. Raise your hands. I'm not voting. The elements of criminally negligent homicide. They fit maybe the elements aren't important. Maybe that's why we're not given jury instructions in writing, because we're not supposed to do some mechanical analysis of elements. Maybe we're supposed to react emotionally, that is with compassion, have little compassion for addicts at this moment. Now, deal with the consequences of her actions. Smokers should have to think twice before they blow smoke in somebody else's direction. And so should every movie star and model and friend and family member. How else are we supposed to fight? A hundred billion dollar industry. I've had enough of this. You see you see what I mean? She wants to hang everybody. She's a fanatic. She wants to put everybody on trial. Someone has died unnecessarily and we should know who is responsible. What about Jack Senior? Why can't he take responsibility for remaining? What, Eleanor Jordan for living in the same house, for staying there while she smoked or evil cigarets, maybe even for marrying her in the first place? Why can we put responsibility where responsibility goes? Why are we blaming Eleanor Jordan? What about Jack Senior? He could have left. The guy could've left. Mr. Cassidy, if I let you stick a knife in my chest, even after I had been warned. You said us. Don't get the. Everybody knows that a knife will kill you. Not everybody knows or believes that ambiens cigaret smoke will kill you. But you know what? There are tons of studies that have made it clear, Max. But you you know, you don't want to believe them because your brother smoked around you because he died of lung cancer. Sell it. Keep it up. Just go up. Please make your vote. You and your dead brother. Look at them. Look at them, goddammit. Look at them. Are those the same? Are you going to tell me that those are the same things? Family here, they're the family. Wow. What are you watching and. Let me have ten more minutes and then we read a book, OK? OK. Earlier today, a verdict was reached in that bizarre murder trial after a surprising six hour deliberation. The jury acquitted Eleanor Jordan of all charges concerning the death of her husband, Sheila Morgan. The prosecuting attorney refused to comment on the verdict, but the New York state governor called for Miss Morgan's resignation and issued a formal apology to Eleanor Jordan. District Attorney Sheila Morgan issued a statement saying she would not resign. Three. Nearing. The EC is serrate. You will find someone from the Ellen. I cork kings, queens. Mercy Covid. Must be free. Machine called. Miss. Left. Raging. Mean like your people. Twist. And the world of golf. And you shake and you sweat, gravlax and you all get. Got something? I mean, ask him. Can't, can't. But CEO. Break. Have mercy on Charlie. Someone needs to stop Clearway Law. Public shouldn't leave reviews for lawyers.