Transcript for Bill and Coo (1948) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (bright music) - Pardon me. Pardon me. I beg your pardon. Where's the boss? I've gotta tell him something. - Beats me, sister. (birds chirping) - [Elizabeth] Oh, Mr. Murray. There are some people here to see you. - Oh, hello folks. Will you take a seat? I'll be right with you. Oh, George! - Yes? - Will you bring over those two temperamental actors? I want them to meet their public. We're making a picture with birds. Murder. (gentle music) - Here they are, Mr. Murray. - Folks, these are the stars of our picture, Bill and Coo. Say, George, don't you think that Coo's makeup is a little heavy around the eyes? - I hadn't noticed. Maybe so. Makeup! Makeup! - Makeup! - Makeup! - [Elizabeth] Here you are, Mr. Burton. - Oh. - Oh, aren't they cute. May I feed them? - Well, I doubt if they'll eat. They just came from lunch. - Say, George. Have you, uh, perfected that trick where the bird walks the tightrope carrying the parasol? - Well, I think they've got it. - I'd like to see that before the picture starts. - Well, coming right up. - Did I understand you to say that a bird walks a tightrope carrying a parasol? - Yes. What's wrong with a bird carrying a parasol? (bird chirping) - All right, Mr. Murray. The difficult part of this trick, in fact, almost any trick with a bird, is get him in position to do it. Because, believe it or not, even in their training, I never touch these little birds with my hands at any time. Now this first little trick is much more difficult than most people will imagine. These little birds live in trees, crawl around always on solid objects, something they can grip with their feet and hang on with a little curved beak. Teddy always wanted to be a wire walker. I'll show you how good he isn't. (cheerful music) He can't walk the top, but he does the next best thing. Crawls along the bottom and gets there just the same. That's very nice. Buddy is a wire walker. But he's a terrible ladder climber upper, so I give him a head start. The parasol doesn't help any, but it looks a little better. Buddy, turn around and face the boss. That's okay with me. Let's start the picture. (uplifting music) - Academy Awards are Hollywood's most cherished possessions. They're won every year by the best actor, actress, writers, directors, technical men and women, and of course the best pictures of the year. So when two little love birds, one from South America and the other from India, get recognition from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, incidentally, the first and only time in their history, I feel you're entitled to a little explanation. Now the two stars of our picture, Bill and Coo, are members of a theatrical act called "George Burton and his Love Birds" that appeared in a stage show of mine for a number of years out here in Hollywood. And the thing that impressed me as I watched them night after night perform was that they never flew. Now he didn't clip their wings. He just taught them always to walk. And when they walked, they were like little people and I felt if they were little people, you could write a story about them. And here's a story. (pleasant music) - [Narrator] This is Chirpendale, a rustic little village nestled in the hills of a rolling countryside. Oh, don't bother to look it up in your atlas. You won't find it there. It's just one of those little out of the way places we city folk seldom bother to drop in on. And it's a shame too. There are so many interesting things to see in this world if we'd only look for them. The inhabitants of Chirpendale are pretty much the same as those of other small communities. They have their busy streets, their stores and shops bustling with workaday business. ("Merrily We Roll Along") (cheerful music) Of course, if you wanna travel locally, just consult our hero, Bill Singer. He runs the town's taxi company. Bill is a hardworking young cabbie who is putting in long hours in order to save enough to ask his sweetheart, Coo, to become his wife. Coo is the daughter of one of Chirpendale's wealthiest citizens, while Bill comes from across the railroad tracks where his mother boards chicks and takes in washing. But let's take a look down the main stem. 42nd Street and Birdway. (trolley bell dings) As we amble down this busy thoroughfare, we pass, among other things, the meat market, where they sell worms, $.10 a link. And here is the palatial Chirpendale Theater. They play some pretty good pictures in there. (suspenseful music) Hm. I have to see that. I never did find out who done it. (trolley bell dings) (bright music) Down at the end of the street is Chirpendale's main hotel, the Wren Rest. Coo's father owns this establishment. As a matter of fact, there's Coo gazing out of her penthouse now. She's most likely hoping to catch a glimpse of Bill. But he's most likely busy with his taxi. Sure enough, there's Bill taking the pawnbroker back to his office. Up at the end of the street is a village church, the Wee Kirk of the Feather. This is where the lovebirds are married. And this is where the matches are made. For every love match she makes, she puts one in the fence. Beatrice is a pretty swell old gal. She takes care of everybody's troubles in town, including this young man. That's Johnny Loon. Folks call him the village idiot. Here's his favorite actor. (energetic instrumental music) Johnny is peculiar, but Beatrice says there's nothing wrong with him except that he came out of a cracked egg. Toward the outskirts of town we see the village school. Here is where the younger generations start their education as soon as they get their pin feathers. Their teacher is Professor Plato Spoonbill. He teaches that the world is shaped like an egg. (school bell dinging) Hey, there goes the recess bell. ("Pop Goes the Weasel") Of course, our hero Bill Singer has no time for recreation. Here he is taking Mrs. Falcon down to the hotel. Her husband is the biggest lawyer in town. I guess that's why Chirpendale seems to be a lovely feathered utopia where the fullness of life can be enjoyed happily and peacefully. A place where each individual can live contentedly beside his neighbor. Shaping his own destiny with freedom from fear. But can he? (dramatic music) No. The heavy footsteps of evil are ever lurking nearby, casting its dark, malignant shadow over the small metropolis. This sinister enemy who has violated every law of decency strikes terror into the gentle inhabitants of Chirpendale. And his name is only spoken in fearsome whispers. He is called the Black Menace. (ominous music) Throughout the ages he and his kind have preyed on the friendly little people of the wood, despoiling their nests, stealing their eggs, and carrying off their young. He mocks and sneers to show his contempt for the forces of justice. But Chirpendale is not asleep. Not too far away in a secluded spot, the citizens under the leadership of Bill Singer are working on Operation Scarecrow. Every day after work you'll find Bill toiling diligently with his neighbors to bring about the destruction of the Black Menace. In addition, Bill has worked many nights developing a new bait with a secret formula. Hey, Charlie, push that wagon out of the way. I want to show these folks Formula 303. There it is. Sur-Fyr Crow Bait. Of course, having a bait in a trap is one thing, but catching the Black Menace is another. Because believe me, he's a crafty, tough hombre. (dramatic music) But for the moment, let's turn our thoughts to lighter things. For this is not the time for morbid fears. It's a day for laughter and gaiety. The Starling Brothers Circus is in town. The big show is tomorrow, but the parade's today. And here it comes up the street now. (energetic instrumental music) - [Narrator 2] Ooh, what a wonderful parade! Look! Baby possums. The circus performers! Panthers! And tigers! Everyone is down watching the parade. That is, everyone except Ma Singer. And she couldn't go because she had to work. (chuckles) Christmas is early this year. And so is Thanksgiving. Oh, no. Not Ben Hur. What's the matter? Buttons? Break them. That's the way the laundry does. Well done, Ma Singer. Your work is finished. But his is just beginning. - Well, it looks like all the inhabitants of Chirpendale are safely tucked away for the night. But remember what the man said. The heavy footsteps of evil are ever lurking nearby, casting its dark malignant shadow over this small metropolis. Say, that sounds like soap opera stuff, doesn't it? One of the things I always love to hear are the announcers on those shows. They're so dramatic, you know? Can't you just hear one of those fellows if he were announcing this picture? He'd probably pick up his script and he'd say, "And now folks, that warm and wonderful time is here. Time for a brief pause in the morning's toil. Time to bring you the program that asks the question can a poor boy from the wrong side of the tracks whose mother takes in washing find happiness with a girl whose father owns the biggest hotel in town? For the answer to all these questions, stay tuned to this station and we'll find out right after this word." (gentle music) - [Narrator 2] Well, the day is over and night has fallen on Chirpendale. With the moon casting its soft, luminous glow over the drowsy little hamlet, most of the little guys and gals have gone to bed to rest up for the big day at the circus tomorrow. But a few linger on, like these two sweethearts, Bill and Coo. These two kids really have it bad. And its so natural. For in Chirpendale, love, happiness, and contentment blend together in harmony like the soft chord of a great composer's masterpiece. ♪ Hum a little tune like love birds do ♪ ♪ Live a honeymoon your whole life through ♪ ♪ All your cares take wing ♪ If you can sing ♪ And learn to Bill and Coo ♪ Every winter day will seem like dreams ♪ ♪ And on cloudy nights we'll find the moon ♪ ♪ If you try a song you can't go wrong ♪ ♪ So why not hum a little tune (bird whistling) ♪ All your cares take wing ♪ If you can sing - [Coo] Good night, Bill. ♪ Oh why not hum a little tune (cheerful music) (trolley bell dings) - [Narrator] Of course, Chirpendale hasn't completely rolled up the carpet. Up at the end of the street, the circus performers have taken over the juice bar. And the joint is really jumping. (bird whistles) There's one in every town. (bright jazzy music) And here is junior Willie the Warbler, our musical maestro of the mahogany. You name it, he'll mix it to the rhythm of your favorite tune. That's Slippy Macaw. He likes his root beer cold and his music hot. - [Slippy] Hey, put on a hot record. ♪ When every birdie I meet ♪ Is singing tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet ♪ ♪ It makes me feel I wanna tweet, tweet, tweet it too ♪ ♪ When I go walking in spring ♪ And hear those love birdies sing ♪ ♪ Then I am sure I need to tweet, tweet, tweet it too ♪ ♪ Outside my window there's a birdie on a limb ♪ ♪ And when I see a birdie cuddle up to him ♪ ♪ I get so lonesome and blue ♪ I feel like crying boo-hoo ♪ Because I feel I wanna tweet, tweet, tweet it too ♪ ♪ All the birdies I meet ♪ Singing tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet ♪ ♪ Chirp, chirp, chirp, twitter, tweet, tweet ♪ ♪ Walk in the spring and I hear the birds singing ♪ ♪ Tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet ♪ I gotta tweet, tweet it too ♪ There's a birdie sittin' high on a limb ♪ ♪ He's got a lady cuddling him (bird whistling) ♪ 'Cause I feel I wanna tweet, tweet, tweet it too ♪ (upbeat music) - [Slippy] Somebody hit it, huh? - [Narrator] Yes, fortune seems to be smiling on Chirpendale tonight as the last of its weary citizens prepare to call it a day. When suddenly, out of the night without warning, the Black Menace strikes. (crow wings whirring) Cold terror grips the populace as it searches the sky with fearsome eyes. The civilian patrol is on the alert and rushes to his post to spread the alarm. (siren wailing) The heavy drone of dark wings drowns out the lighter tunes of gaiety as the macabre shadow of the Black Menace dances over the main street of Chirpendale. One by one the lights go out. In the darkness, the panic-stricken figures seek shelter from the awesome terror overhead. Theater goers, who but a few moments before were enjoying their favorite entertainment, rush from the building hurriedly but orderly into their underground places of protection. As the last one leaves, the lights go out, each taking his turn as they go into the dugout and thankful that they had made preparation for such a night as this. (suspenseful music) Huddled in the dark underground, wondering what will happen to them, and wondering if their loved ones are in danger. Will they be safe from this death in the sky? The warden makes a dash for the dugout to calm the fears of those under his protection. (door slams) Well, this is it. The two night watchers keeping their lonely vigil give a final shriek of warning. (owl shrieking) (dramatic music) Alone, with fear clutching her heart, Coo casts a wary eye on this monster. (ominous music) As his eyes scan the words on the trapdoor, other eyes scan the Black Menace. In the shelter, the townspeople huddle mutely with blanched faces and taut muscles. (bird blows raspberry) Stunned by this bold impertinence, he turns to wreak vengeance with acts of vandalism as the night watch follows his every move. Cautiously he eyes a street car. What is this strange contraption? A booby trap? Deep under the ground there is a deathly quiet. (trolley crashes) With slow, measured tread, the dark invader stalks toward the next objective of his fury. The Wren Rest Hotel. Inside his evil mind, a crafty plan is taking shape. His sadistic brain is working furiously. When suddenly a fiendish inspiration possesses him. He is going to use the greatest of all destructive forces. Fire. (ominous music) Seeking to put his plan into operation, his sharp eye fastens on the picket railing in front of Beatrice Fairfinch's house, the match fence. Ironically, what seemed to her an innocent, humorous display of her vocation now becomes an instrument of death and destruction. (ominous music) Having the match in his possession, he dashes for the hotel. Holding his fiery torch, he goes to the rear of the hotel and drops it in a pile of rubbish. With his dastardly deed done, the Black Menace takes for cover. (dramatic instrumental music) (fire alarm ringing) (siren wailing) The first to arrive at the scene is the hook and ladder. But this is a three-alarm fire and all volunteer firemen are called to duty. Awakened from his sleep, Bill Singer dresses quickly and rushes out into the night, makes his way to the firehouse just as the fire chief slides down the pole, and takes his place on the pumper. (bell ringing) Bill, grasping the tongue of the engine, starts out. To the clang of bells and the shriek of sirens, Bill surges forward on his mission of mercy. (dramatic music continues) The hotel is now a burning inferno. But our hero grabs the hose and rushes in. Somewhere within this blazing furnace, Bill Singer is chopping through doors and walls to smother the flames with his torrent of water. And he is successful. Bill is getting the fire under sufficient control to allow the guests to make a dash from the entrance. Ma Singer, worried, rushes to the scene. (sirens wailing) Bill Singer, of course, is the last to leave the building, convinced that all are safe. But he is mistaken, for trapped on the top floor is his sweetheart, Coo. Stunned for a moment, Bill hurriedly talks things over with the chief. What to do? But there is no time to waste, for up there is the woman he loves. The decision is made. Up, up, up goes the tall ladder. Coo looks hopefully through her window, fully confident that her man will not fail her. As the ladder reaches the edge of the roof, Bill starts his perilous climb. The crowd below watches breathlessly. Step by step, Bill climbs up, up, up, and up to the woman he loves. Below, the sound of crashing glass tells them that Bill Singer has broken through. (heavenly music) Ma Singer is thrilled and happy at her brave son's daring rescue. But not so with the Black Menace. He glares with hatred at his nemesis with the checked tie. Our hero and his loved ones are congratulated that all have come through safely without loss of life. But there is no happiness in the heart of the Black Menace. All right, Mr. Checked Tie. Tonight you have foiled me. I will go. But I shall return. (ominous music) (pleasant music) (upbeat music) (telegraph beeping) - [Wingy] Hello, folks. This is your announcer, Wingy Chattermouth, bringing you an on-the-spot announcement of this gala occasion. Here in the park, Bill has just helped his fiancee, Coo, into the balloon. And listen to that crowd cheer! (crowd cheering) I think the celebration is about to begin. So I will now turn the microphone over to his honor, Mayor Badwell Bentbeak. - [Mayor Bentbeak] All right, folks, gather round. Gather round and join me in song. Ready? One, two. ♪ Off to the circus, no worry or work ♪ ♪ As we toss our cares away ♪ What if it's clouded ♪ The sky's never clouded on any circus day ♪ ♪ We'll drown all our sorrows in pink lemonade ♪ ♪ Laugh at the clowns on parade ♪ ♪ And we'll eat cotton candy ♪ And everything dandy on circus day ♪ ♪ We must hurry ♪ We're on our way ♪ It's all so gay ♪ Let's shout hurray (whistling) - [Bird In Boat] Horace, be careful! ♪ Off to the circus, no worry or work ♪ ♪ As we toss our cares away ♪ What if it's clouded ♪ The sky's never cloudy on any circus day ♪ (humming) ♪ On the midway, the Ferris wheel ♪ ♪ The kiddies wheel, the barker's spiel ♪ ♪ Head right this way, folks ♪ The best show on earth ♪ We guarantee you'll get your money's worth ♪ ♪ Colossal ♪ Sensational ♪ Man-eating tiger named Prince ♪ ♪ Panthers, gargantuas, chipmunks, and bears ♪ ♪ Birds that blow bugles and monkeys in pairs ♪ ♪ Fill up on yummies ♪ Get pains in your tummy ♪ On circus day - I'm sure you've all seen many three ring circuses in your life, but I promise you you've never seen one like the Starling Brother circus. So before we get our candy and popcorn and join Bill and Coo and their friends under the big top, I'd like to tell you something about the performance you're going to see. Now it's not unusual in a regular circus to see an acrobat do a summersault or a bareback rider on a horse. But when the bareback rider is on a little guinea pig, and all of the acrobats stand two inches in height, weigh less than half an ounce, and only have a teaspoon full of blood in them, you'll suddenly realize that you're witnessing some of the most fantastic things ever captured on film. Now think for a moment. Can you in your wildest imagination visualize 300 little birds walking down a midway, entering the big top, taking their seats in the grandstand, and turning around and watching a three ring circus? Well, that's exactly what you're going to see right now. (epic music) - [Narrator] Say, it sounds like the big show is ready to start. We'd better be getting into the main tent. ("Entry of the Gladiators") - [Wingy] Step over to the main tent, folks. Step back, boys. Step back. Keep out of the way, boys. Will you get off the platform? All those holding reserve seat tickets occupy the hard-back opera chairs opposite ring number one! - [Narrator] As you can see, all Chirpendale has turned out for the circus. Even Ma Singer has arranged to go. She's advertised for a babysitter. There comes one now. A high school girl. (bell dinging) Well, come on, start sitting. Off to the circus. So excited she forgot to take her apron off. The audience are all in their seats. Uh-oh. There's always one of these guys. And the funny part is they always find a seat. Well, just don't sit there. Move over. Take some and leave some. (spring boinging) Bill and Coo enter their private box. Oh, not here, Bill. And the first act, Barrelhouse Egbert. (lively music) Hurry up, Ma. The show has already started. Put your money up there. All right, Bud. We're watching you. Put it in the till. Hey, there's one more. Go ahead and do the last one. Thank you. This is what they call rolling your own. And there's Ma Singer having the time of her life. And now the three-ring circus has started. In the middle ring is the weightlifter. In the number two ring, the bareback rider. Fine place to take a bath. Oh, well, the manager told him to clean up his act. And in the third ring, a few stunts on the horizontal bar. (bird grunting) - [Wingy] Your attention please! And now the world's champion motorcycle rider, Cannonball Twitchet, will attempt to break the world's record of 150 miles an hour right before your very eyes. Here he is, Cannonball Twitchet! All right, Cannonball. Let's go! (motorcycle engine revving) - [Narrator] There he goes. 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100! 105, 110, 115. But the audience is going wild. 135, 140, 145, 150. He did it! - [Wingy] Thank you, Cannonball Twitchet! Thank you, Cannonball Twitchet! [Narrator] Uh-oh, something's gone wrong. Cannonball can't stop that motorcycle. Hold on, Cannonball. Hold on. We'll have to get on with the show. (thrilling music) The somersault is one of the most difficult tricks for a bird to perform. Montgomery, after months of practice, learned to do this trick. The only reason he's preparing so much is that he doesn't want to fall off the mat. He's never fallen off in his entire career. Oh, well. There's always a first time. (drum roll music) He's even got the cat doing it. - [Wingy] Next act. Dropalong and Featherby, acrobats. - [Narrator] This is Dropalong, showing how to do a flip from the horizontal bar. (pleasant music) He's doing this as a warm-up for his partner. And this is Featherby, star of the team. And here is Shorty, who handles the rigging. He believes that one good turn deserves another. (audience applauding) And now our prima donna, Tilly Titwillow, on the Roman rings. The young lady enters the center ring and climbs hand over hand up the rope. (ominous music) This guy has the softest job in the circus. He got it by pulling a few strings. Tilly is taking her time to see that her grip on the rings is just right. And I can't blame her. One slip would be fatal. After all, there's no net down there. Uh-oh, she's still having trouble with that right ring. Here we go. (drum roll music) (pleasant music) (audience applauding) Oh, look. Cannonball is running out of gas. (engine sputtering) I'll bet Cannonball is plenty dizzy after that ride. He sure is. - [Wingy] He's even got me doing it. And now the sensational Iron Jaw! (dramatic music) (drum roll music) (pleasant music) - [Narrator] Careful, Shorty, you've got two lives in your hands now. (crow wings whirring) - [Wingy] Attention, everyone. Attention! Please keep your seats. Everyone. Please remain in your seats. It's probably just the carrier pigeon coming in with the mail. Someone turn down those house lights and we'll go on with the show. I tell you, there is nothing to worry about. - [Narrator] Maybe not. But I think we'd better take a look around town. Yes, there is something to worry about, with the entire population of Chirpendale gathered under that big tent and in danger of being trapped. If only there was some way to warn them. But there's no one in town. I'm wrong. There's Johnny Loon. Now if only his pixelated little mind can grasp the importance of this situation. And I think it has. Johnny, mounted on his faithful steed of knotty pine, gallops off to spread the alarm. But can he evade this monstrous enemy as he slowly treads the Main Street in search of his prey? Uh-oh. Taking no chances, Johnny races up the side street as the Black Menace turns and slowly retraces his steps to make sure he has overlooked nothing. Johnny, keeping close to the buildings, stealthily makes his way back and slips into the theater lobby just in the nick of time. As the big bully walks slowly by, Johnny shrinks back into the shadows. Don't move, Johnny. The slightest noise and you'll be a dead pigeon. Go ahead, Johnny, go ahead. Make a dash for it. Who called this little fellow an idiot? Did he hear something? (ominous music) Don't let him catch you, Johnny. Spread the alarm! But back under the canvas top, true to the tradition of show folks everywhere, the performers carry on as if nothing had happened. Here we see Bertha Backslider climbing up to do her death-defying thriller. (suspenseful music) All eyes are glued intensely on this daring young lady as she reaches for the hook and starts the slide for life. (audience applauding) She takes her well-deserved bow in front of the royal box. But where is Johnny Loon? (suspenseful music continues) And still the performance goes on, with Smokey Hazard, the fire bird. (dramatic music) (audience applauding) Hurry Johnny, hurry! - [Johnny] The crow, the crow is coming. The crow is coming, the crow, the crow is coming. The crow, the crow, the crow is coming. The crow, the crow is coming. The crow, the crow is coming. - [Narrator] Could they be hearing right? What was Johnny shouting? - [Johnny] The crow, the crow is coming. The crow, the crow, the crow is coming. The crow is coming. The crow. The crow is coming. The crow. The crow is coming. - I've gotta get out of here. - [Johnny] The crow, the crow is coming. The crow, the crow is coming. - [Narrator] As the full impact of this fearsome message strikes the audience, a wave of frenzy sweeps over the vast arena. Where laughter and gaiety had reigned a few moments ago, there is nothing but chaos and pandemonium. The hysterical mob surges toward the exit. But escape is hopeless, as the Black Menace blocks their way. (dramatic music) Terror-stricken, they pour back into the canvas enclosure. - [Bird Outside Tent] Hey, wait for me! - [Narrator] The animals have been aroused from their lethargy. Even the fox is all ears. (horn blares) While the dark felon takes time to enjoy his sinister victory, Bill's mind is working fast. He realizes that their only hope of averting disaster is to put Operation Scarecrow into action. But dare he try it alone? Faced with the most important decision of his entire life, Bill weighs the chances of his plan succeeding as confusion and hopelessness grip the villagers. Bill's mind is made up. He kisses his sweetheart goodbye and goes into action. Impossible to leave by the main entrance, he slips out through a small opening in the side. Cautiously he makes his way, using the cages as a screen. Watching his chance, he swiftly tiptoes by the Black Menace. Past his first danger, he knows he must work fast. While the archenemy of Chirpendale, still unaware of Bill's escape, puts fear into the hearts of his hapless captives. This boy is really scared. Coo tries bravely to keep up her courage as the imminence of danger lends wings to Bill's feet. (frantic music) He'll need his taxi to speed up his plan and secret Formula 303. Time is the most important element. And he must make the most of it. Now if it will only work. As the master plan begins to unfold, the Black Menace still parades his arrogance with a triumphant stride. Keep down there, Bud. But how can he attract the crow's attention? Bill's mind is working furiously. Ah! An idea strikes him. Back under the tent, Coo vainly tries to comfort the unhappy creatures. As Bill, taking his life in his hands, decides to shoot off this ancient cannon to attract the Black Menace. Will it blow up in his face? (canon bangs) To make doubly sure, Bill reloads and fires it again. (canon bangs) (dramatic music) He's gone. He's gone! Let's get out! Inspired by the brave leadership of Bill Singer, the townspeople cast their fears aside and join in the chase. With the first step of his strategy accomplished, Bill starts back for his taxi as the Black Menace comes toward town. He's on his way toward Operation Scarecrow. What's he stopping for? Oh, he wants to be sure the crow sees him. Look out, Bill. Look out, he's coming! (dramatic music continues) He made it! With the speed of light, Bill opens the bag of bait and climbs out through the rear. The Black Menace comes to a halt. He spies the bait. But will this crafty demon fall for a trick like this? Bill, not daring to breathe, watches tensely, hoping against hope that after all their effort, this plan will not fail. Will the militia ever come? (cavalry charge music) The Black Menace enters the doorway. Come on, Bill, come on. Spring the trap! He's done it! He's done it! (bright music) Yes, after months of preparation, Operation Scarecrow finally paid off. With cries of delight, Bill's friends and neighbors rush in to congratulate him. Once again he is the man of the hour. But the malignant eyes of the Black Menace blaze with hatred at his captor. The villagers swarm up over the rustic Bastille, proud of their glorious victory, proving once again that no matter how small people are, they don't have to be bullied by anyone if they'll just stick together. Well, the circus is packing up and getting ready to move on. And the gaudy caravan is taking its cheer to other places. (bright music) - [Narrator 2] Naturally, like all true lovebirds, Bill and Coo were married. Coo in all her bridal splendor. Bill with his white tie. His honor, Mayor Bentbeak, performed the ceremony. It was a quiet little wedding. Just the family and a few friends. Of course, Ma Singer was there, wearing the same dress that she was married in years ago. What a thrill when Mayor Bentbeak said, "I now pronounce you bird and bird." - [Mayor Bentbeak] It's over. It's over. Mr. Singer, please kiss the bride. - [Coo] Oh, Bill, Bill, don't. You're acting like a fool. Oh, that's embarrassing, Bill, stop now. Please, Bill. Oh, Bill, please. Oh, now, you're acting like a fool. Please, Bill. Oh, I was never so embarrassed in my whole life. ♪ Live a honeymoon your whole life through ♪ ♪ Just like Bill and Coo - [Narrator 3] Ingrid Bergman made the presentation when Ken Murray was honored with his special Academy Award for "Bill and Coo". At the time, to conserve metal, the smaller plaques were temporarily used with a promise that they would be replaced. A short time later the executive director of the Academy, James Roberts, made good that promise. (triumphant music) (bright music)