Transcript for The Adventures of Robin Hood (1985) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (foreboding music) - Go on! - Come on you scum. We'll have you in the dungeons before dark. Give the rats a chance to see what they're having for supper. Move on! Come on! (guards yelling) - Oh! - What troubles you? - My lord Sheriff, why must you treat these people so? - These people are treated as they deserve. - What have they done this time? - They were found with stolen money. - [Hilda] Surely these are not thieves, just hardworking farmers. - [Sheriff] In league with the outlaws who robbed my tax collectors. - Then catch the outlaws, punish them. - In time, all things must come to pass. - Including supper. Hilda, I trust the lady Marion will not keep us waiting again tonight. Be so kind as to go to her chambers. Tell her I await her company. - I shall ask her to ready herself. - When Robin Hood hears of this, he'll be bound to try to rescue them. And he will hear, just as he seems to hear of my every move. - My Lord, try not to concern yourself about a spy. If one is here, he'll not escape my eye for much longer. - That I hope, for should it take much longer your eyes will surely fail of age. (rousing music) (playful music) - Thank you my lord, that supper was most excellent. - Marion, for six months now you've eaten excellent meals at my table. Will you not reconsider my proposal of marriage? I guarantee you that you shall want for nothing for the rest of your life. - No, my Lord. I cannot. Perhaps when my father returns from the Holy Land, we shall speak of it. - I would not wish you one moment of despair, beloved lady, but you must understand there is no guarantee of his safety. - He will return. I'm sure of it. And I will retire now with your permission. - Oh tarry just a few moments more. - Forgive me, my Lord. I grow so weary. - Then I would not detain you. If her father should ever return. I know he'll not agree to our marriage. - Rest easy my Lord. Remember I have said before the Earl of Vaunt shall never again set foot on English soil. - It is indeed a comfort to me to know that I have such a trustworthy Lieutenant. - Trust is a very strong word. I would never commit myself with such language. Let us instead agree that without you I could not be so sure to eat and live so well. - So I am to you no more than an employer. - And I to you are the means by which you retain this position. Let neither of us overstep his boundaries. - Make haste. Help me with this cloak. - Marion, you must not go tonight. The Lieutenant suspects every one of us. - Loosen this tie, the sooner I'm gone, the sooner I return. (suspenseful music) I'm ready. Where's the rope? Help me with this. Make haste. - Oh I'd like ale to warm my bones. It's all too quiet tonight. (suspenseful music continues) (door creaks) (door creaks) (horse neighs) - Night watch! Night watch! - What is this? Why do you call out the watch? - [Guard] I heard a horse, galloping away from the castle. - This must be the traitor who carries messages to Robin Hood. - It could so. We'll organize a search of all the bed chambers. If we find one empty we know the identity of the spy. - And when he returns, the scaffold will be waiting for him. - Or perhaps her. - Her? You know there are very few women privy to my thinking. - Then it shouldn't take long to search the Lady Marion's chamber. - Don't be so foolish. Marion is no spy. I could trust- - I said before you use that word too lightly. - Indeed you did. So now let's both go together to her room and prove you wrong. - Gentlemen is something wrong? - The guard called out the night watch. It appears there is an intruder in the castle and I was concerned for you. - I thank you for thinking of me but as you can see, he's not here. Only myself and Hilda who is asleep in the bedroom. - I'm much relieved to see you here alone. I wish you a good night. We won't disturb you again. We've other rooms to search. - I hope you find your man. Good night. (Hilda chuckles) (rousing music) - Robin that dinner was delicious. I'm sure King Richard himself would have been proud to serve such a fine roast. - I'm sure he would, considering it was one of his own deer. - He would never begrudge the odd haunch of venison to ones as loyal as we. - Of course not. - To good King Richard. (woman screams) Someone's hurt. - Don't forget these. This could be another of my Lord Lieutenant's tricks. - Sorry. - Stay here you two. (tense music) - Oh help! Help! - Don't worry me young lad. I'll help thee. - You're so kind. - Now, thou to stay put. (Marion groans) (horse whinnies) - I do thank you, sir. My horse slipped in the mud. - That I can see. Now you're wearing most of it. (laughs) (Robin and Will laughing) - I'm slapped you once before Robin Hood and I'll- - You'll do nothing young sprig. Unless you want to be a man before your time. - Stop talking like that, you great oaf. (Little John grunts) Use your eyes. - Oh. Forgive me your ladyship. I didn't know. (Robin and Will laughing) - [Marion] Who is this? - I'll tell you as we walk back to the camp. - Who is that giant? - The newest of the Merry Men. I met him this afternoon down at the ford. You know how narrow it is. I wanted to cross and so did he. One of us will have to stand back. - Then it will be thee. - I think not. Make way for your better. - I've not yet been bettered. - Well then, prepare for this. He picked me up with one hand and threw me back onto the bank. - (laughs) And you landed on your pride. - Well, yes. But when the rest of the Merry Men appeared, he seemed to realize who I was and pleaded with me to forgive him and to let him join us. - What is his name? - Well, his real name is John Little, but with a body like that, I've retitled him Little John. - (chuckles) I think he'll be a huge asset. - Marion, you know how much it pleases me to see you, but isn't it getting a little too risky. The Sheriff and that Lieutenant are not complete fools you know. - Are they not? You don't know their latest scheme. - But you're going to tell me. - I'm going to tell you of the scheme and then what to do about it. - Thank you. - They've arrested six men from Millcaster. - [Robin] For what? - For taking the money you gave them. - But it was theirs in the first place. - By the time you stole it, it had become the Sheriffs. - But those people were starving in order to pay that much in taxes. - He knows only that as long as they don't starve quite to death, they'll keep working. And while they live, they'll pay his taxes. - Not while I can do something about it. - And that's the other thing I've come to tell you. You are to do nothing to help those six prisoners. - But Marion! - Listen! The Sheriff won't harm six good taxpayers, but he's quite ready to use them as a bait to catch you. - Yes, I see that. - He'll soon get tired of waiting for you to appear. And then he'll release them. - You're very wise, my sweet Marion. - But not wise in affairs of the heart, I fear. - Oh! Marion. - No, please, no more. I can tell you nothing. I don't know. - Leave him! Find the next. - My Lord. You're not torturing these men? - Torture is a strong word my dear. No, no. The Lieutenant simply wants a little information. I'm sorry if it distresses you, but one of these peasants must know who is passing information to Robin Hood. - You can't be sure of that. - My dear Marion, can you explain how every time my tax gatherers are carrying money in Sherwood Forest, that outlaw knows it in time to waylay them. He never attacks when they're empty handed. - It could be that someone in the castle is carrying messages. - We shall find out soon enough. This afternoon, the Lieutenant will lead his men to Millcaster village, where he will collect again, all the taxes Robin Hood has stolen. Should he run into any trouble with outlaws we shall know there is an informer among us. - But you still won't know who it is. - The Lieutenant has eyes through every window. No one can move six inches without he knows of it. - Well, Hilda, there are no windows down here and the atmosphere makes me feel quite ill. Let us go for some air. - Good morning ladies. - Good morning, my Lord. - Good morning. - Continue. (dramatic music) - Marion, you couldn't be so foolish. He means what he says. The Lieutenant trusts no one. - Then how can I let Robin know about them reimposing those taxes? - You cannot. Robin will have to deal with this without your help. (light music) (Robin yells) - Cut me down. Get me out of this! - Oh dear me! I thought I'd caught my dinner. - Do I look like a deer? Cut me down, you bloated toad. - Is that the way you would address a man of the cloth sir? - A man of the cloth turned poacher. Yes. - How much is it worth to me to release you? - Enough to guarantee your safe passage through the Green Wood. You may have heard of me, I'm Robin Hood. - The very man I came to see. please allow me. - Ah! You've twisted my ankle. - Take my arm. I'll help you across the stream. - You'll have to do better than that. You'll have to carry me across. - I fear you're mistaken good sir. - The only fear you need mention, is that I should pierce the blubber you encase yourself with. Walk! - Sir, I know not how deep might be the water. - You can stop when it reaches my chin. Don't worry about the cold. Your padding won't let you freeze. Don't stop now, you've done a grand job. - And here's one better. (dramatic music) - Very uncharitable of you master friar. - And this, more so. - No more! I concede. - Methinks you could speak those words with more sincerity. - I have no breath to speak again. - Enough to say yes to my request, I pray. - [Robin] And what is that? - To join Robin Hood's Merry Men. Unless you move, there will be Merry Men, but no Robin Hood. - (chuckles) Forgive me! Don't know me own weight. - Will you now tell me your name? - My name I'm afraid has gone from my memory. For so long the cruel insensitive men with whom I shared a table have mocked my appetite. I answer now only to the appellation Tuck. Friar Tuck it is, I'm sad to say. - Ha, so Friar Tuck it is and ever shall be. Now let us hurry to the camp. Dinner should be ready and I expect you're hungry. (sinister music) - What takes your eye my lord? - I'm sorry to say, I think the Lieutenant has met some resistance in Millcaster. - How so? - Do you see that smoke? - (gasps) Has your bully boy set fire to the village? - I think he must have. What a terrible shame. (dramatic music) - Don't thee burn no more We haven't a penny piece to give thee. - I know that Robin Hood returned to you people the tax collected but three weeks ago. Pay up your lawful debt and I'll burn no more of these dogs kennels. - You can't take what we haven't enough to give thee. - I'll take what belongs to the Sheriff or you'll have no houses left at all. (gentle music) - I do so like to hear thee play that lute of yours. - Yes indeed. A tune would whet our appetites. (lute strumming) Hold Will. Lady Marion should hear this. And if I'm not mistaken, she will appear at any moment. (dramatic music) Help her. She's injured. - 'Tis not Marion, 'tis Simon of Millcaster. - 'Tis his mind. The body I think is broken. - Tuck. Bring a mug of ale. Can you talk? - Aye, but you'll not like what I say. The Lieutenant has torched Millcaster village. - [Both] He's done what? - We hid the taxes you returned to us. Once they'd arrested six from our village, We was scared to be found with it. - That should have been good sense. - Except when you know how far the Sheriff and his Lieutenant will go for money. - Hush Robin, another horse I think. - You were followed! John, can you deal with this? - Aye, I can. (tense music) - I called you an oaf the last time, you dunderhead! - Please milady. - Get up! I must speak to Robin. - [Robin] A little late for that I fear. - Well! Don't get angry with me. - You must've known what the Sheriff was planning. - I didn't and even if I had, I couldn't have been here before now. my every move is watched by the Lieutenant. - Now then! No use in quarreling. - If you spent some part of the day with your eyes open, instead of playing poacher, you would have seen the smoke the same as I did. - Seen it too late. - Please! Arguing between ourselves will get us nowhere. - I'm sorry Little John and sorry, Marion. I'm not really angry with you my love. - And neither I with you. - What shall we do Marion? - I have but one idea and it's not particularly good. - That's one more than I, at any rate. - Before Will Scarlet joined you here in the Green Wood he was a roving troubadour. Am I not right? - That he was. I often heard him play. Very good he was. - Your plan Marion? - That Will should resume his former profession. No one in Nottingham knows that he's now one of your men, he can visit the castle, sing for his supper and slip off into the night whenever it so pleases him. - Marion. That's a wonderful idea. - [Marion] Thank you. But let's see what Will thinks. (crow caws) (gentle music) (horse hooves clopping) - Good morrow to you sir. Would you be kind enough to introduce me to the Sheriff? - There he is. - My lord Sheriff. One moment please my Lord. - You called me, minstrel? - I did my Lord, but begging your pardon sir, I'm not a minstrel, I am a troubadour. - [Sheriff] Small difference. - True, but still a difference. Enough to guarantee a few nights entertainment, new songs, new stories. - The price? - Not high. Supper, a bed, perhaps another meal. - Supper you shall get. A bed will be made in the stable. All else you find for yourself. - I cannot refuse. - Go and wash yourself and be ready to sing come suppertime. (sinister music) - That man, that stranger! - A wandering minstrel wants to sing for his supper. - I've not seen him before. I wonder where he's from and what he's doing here. - I'm sure it will take you no time at all to find the answers to those questions. (people chattering) (lute strums) (gentle music) ♪ A thousand years here and gone ♪ ♪ Since man so wondrous fair was seen ♪ ♪ A thousand years have come and gone ♪ ♪ Till we see the equal of the Lionheart ♪ - I do wish these vagabonds could sing of something other than Richard the Lionheart. - My lord, the king is well beloved by his people. - Well beloved perhaps, but also, well nigh forgotten. ♪ Since man so wondrous fair was seen ♪ ♪ A thousand years shall come and part ♪ ♪ Till we see the equal of the Lionheart ♪ (Lieutenant yawning) - [Spy] Psst. ♪ In times we did see the villainy abound ♪ ♪ The king alone for the honor of the crown ♪ ♪ A thousand years here and gone since man ♪ ♪ So wondrous fair was seen (spy whispering) ♪ A thousand years shall come and part ♪ ♪ Till we see the equal of the Lionheart ♪ (crowd muttering) - This is to show you how we treat spies in Nottingham castle. - Spies! - Spies! - [Lieutenant] He's one of Robin Hood's men. - Surely this cannot be. - My Lord Lieutenant would not lie my dear. Take him down to the dungeon! (tense music) - What will you do with him? - Don't you concern yourself about that. The Lieutenant will know how to treat him. - I think we all know what that means. (tense music continues) (door clangs) (suspenseful music) (horse hooves clopping) - (chuckles) Oh Robin, that's good. I've always enjoyed a good tale and you can tell them better than most. - I expect you to have a few of your own master friar. No monk has ever reached your proportions on a monastery's menu. - To take a chicken from here and a duck from there is no match for your saddlebags full of gold ingots I fear. - Hush. (horse hooves clopping) I don't think that can be Marion. She doesn't need to leave the castle now that Will is there to deliver messages. - Better safe than sorry. I'll just take a quick look. - [Friar Tuck] If it should be Marion, try not to harm her this time. (men laughing) - Slow down there! - John, it's Marion. Please step aside, this is urgent. (horse neighs) - Marion! It's good to see you, but why have you come? - It's Will, Robin. Someone recognized him. They've locked him in the dungeon at the castle. The Lieutenant will torture him. - Slow down. - I know what will happen. If they can force him to tell how to get here, the Sheriff will bring every soldier in the county. There'll be a hundred of them to every one of you. - Then we'll need to free him before the Lieutenant has the time to break him. - Tomorrow provides a good opportunity. The Sheriff has arranged an archery contest in the castle grounds, the prize is a purse of gold. So people will throng there from all parts. It will be easy enough for a couple of you to slip through the gate, past the guards. - And if we can fool the guards, we might as well enter the contest. - It would be good to take the Sheriff's money without having to steal it. - You're going too far now. Getting into the castle shouldn't be so difficult, but if you shoot in the competition, you'll be bound to be recognized. - Marion, just for this one time, I'm not going to listen to you. - I'm with Robin, Marion. If we can make this work, our names will go down in the history books. - And if it doesn't work, you'll go down six feet under with your heads in separate caskets. (dramatic music) (crowd muttering) - [Woman] Ripe oranges from the East. Ripe oranges from the East. Big and juicy oranges. - [Man] Hot chestnuts. (crowd exclaiming) - Mince pies! Mince pies! Who'll buy my fine mince pies. - Fine ribbons. Fine ribbons for milady. Fine ribbons. Fine ribbons for milady. - [Man] Hot chestnuts for a penny. Hot chestnuts. - Ripe oranges from the East. Big and juicy oranges. - Hot chestnuts, before they get cold. Four for a penny. - Ripe oranges. - Hot chestnuts. - Ripe oranges. - Before they get cold. Hot chestnuts! (dog growling) (crowd gasping) (light music) (Robin laughing) - [Little John] What causes thee merriment pray? - I'm sorry, John. But when they say you can't make a silk purse from a sow's ear, they must be thinking of you. - Robin, if I only had room to swing my arms in this jacket I'd make thee eat those words. (bell ringing) - Hear ye! Hear ye! The first contest this morning is between milord Sheriff's two finest bowman. The winner of this first heat will then take on anyone who cares to challenge him. (crowd booing) Silence! Silence! The contest will commence. (trumpet fanfare) - That upstart Robin Hood is here. He won't be able to resist the urge to show off. - There's only one fault with your plan. How will you recognize him? - I believe there's only one man in England who could outshoot your champion. That man will be arrested. He will prove to be Robin Hood. Mark my words. - It could be embarrassing should you be wrong. - He's here somewhere. - While everyone is watching these dullards, you find your way to the dungeon. Most of the guards will have left their posts for a view of the contest. - Aye Robin. - Start your targets. Shoot! (crowd laughing) First round to Master Hugh. Prepare to shoot again. (dramatic music) (bodies crashing) Shoot! Round two to Peter. - Stand. So much as blink and I'll run you through. - Not with this you won't. (guard grunts) - Two rounds to Peter. He wins the competition. (crowd booing) We have a champion. Now, who will challenge him? There's a purse of gold at stake. - I'll take it. (crowd clamoring) - Not so fast stranger. You must win it first. - That's what I mean to do? - How do you call yourself? - Loyal to King Richard will do. (crowd cheers) - Loyal to King Richard it is. Step up to the mark and take aim. (suspenseful music) Shoot! (crowd cheers) We must judge that a tie. Prepare to shoot again. - Will Scarlet! Will! - I'm in here John. How did you get down here? - With more trouble than thee, I daresay. - Hmm, seems your tongue is so sharp, you can cut through these bars with it. - Perhaps I'd better leave you here to learn to be a little more grateful. - No, don't do that! - Then be quiet. (crowd cheers) - Another tie. Take away one bulls eye. Well my fine pair. It seems hard to choose a champion. So now we'll do it with the one target. Peter will shoot first. Take aim. (suspenseful music) Shoot. Now you, who calls himself "Loyal to Richard." You take aim. Shoot! (crowd cheering) It is yours sir. Prepare for the second heat. (tense music) - That's better. - A fine effort. Thank you Little John. - Let's get back upstairs. Watch out for Robin. - Better that, upstart! - Willingly. (crowd cheering) (bell ringing) - A moment! I have a side wager to make. Do that again and you shall have this along with the other. - And if I do it twice more, what then do I get? - Would this be a fair prize? - I should like that one above all others. - Then prepare to shoot again. - I think your scheme has proved itself. Are your men ready? - One signal from me and a dozen pairs of arms shall grab him. - Shoot at your pleasure. (crowd cheering) - It must be him. Arrest him. - He promised to do it again. Let's see how good the braggart really is. (suspenseful music) (crowd cheers) Take him! That's Robin Hood! (dramatic music) This purse to the man who captures Robin Hood. (band music) - I'll pay for this later. (tense dramatic music) - Oof! - Ooh! Ouch! Ouch! - Take those three! - Let's get out of here. - Not without the prize. (tense music continues) If you can give this away for so little, you obviously have no need of it. (crowd cheering) - He was here, right under your nose and you let him escape! - My Lord, I had not known that he was so quick witted. - Compared to you a donkey has keen wits. - My lord- - Shut up! I don't like losing. I don't like people who take from me what I should have. I don't like to be disappointed. Marion, today I nearly captured my worst enemy, but he escaped, I think as compensation it could be considered fair that I turn from the one my heart despises, to the one my heart desires. We shall set a wedding date. - My Lord Sheriff, you know that to be impossible. Until my father returns from the crusades to give his consent, I can be betrothed to no one. - Half the soldiers Richard has with him will never return to England. Your father has always been a peaceful man, unskilled in the arts of war, a perfect target for a Saracen blade. As your guardian, I have the right to assume your father's authority over you. - That you do not. - But he most certainly does my sweet lady. - We shall be married on St. Swithin's Day. - No! No! No! (dramatic music) - St. Swithin's Day is the one day of the year you can rely on to be fine. Just as well I thought of that. - Indeed, and if I might pass comment, I think your new suit of clothes is equal to the glorious brightness of the weather. - Only a few hours before my wedding. And yet I still pray for a miracle that will save me from this miserable fate. - We can't rely on miracles. Between us we must be able to think of something. - All I can think of is Robin, how could he allow this to happen? - I'm not sure that even Robin could help this time. The Sheriff has doubled the guard yet again, even though the entire castle has been locked and bolted every night for the past two weeks. - Every night, that's right. - What's right? - He's locked the whole place up like a prison at night, but I've never tried to get out during the day. - You mean now? - I do indeed. - But Marion, when I disguise myself in your garb at night, I rely on the darkness to hide our differences. If anyone should come looking for you while you're out now, they will recognize me at a glance. - Not if you were wearing this. If you were to wear the wedding dress, this would cover most of your face. - Well I- - I can get to Robin and back before noon, before that monster forces a ring onto your finger. - I certainly hope so. I wouldn't like to witness Daniel's face when he returns from the crusades to find his wife twice married. (both giggle) - Worse still, that your other husband is the Sheriff of Nottingham. (both giggle) - Now quickly Marion and be twice as careful as ever before. - I shall be there and back before you have a chance to miss me. (suspenseful music) - [Robin] Stay quite still. You are all easy marks for our arrows. - Who speaks these words? - I do. - Well, that's no reason for concern. - Then perhaps this is. - These, I assume, are the outlaws who call themselves the Merry Men. - They are. - And you are Robin Hood, who dubbed them such? - I am indeed. - I heard that Robin Hood stole only from the rich and with his booty paid money to the poor. - Your information is correct. - Then why stop a small band of penniless monks? - My Lord, Sheriff of Nottingham would stoop to any trick to transport his cruel taxes through the Green Wood. - And you suspect that we are tax gatherers in disguise? - That's exactly right. - Not exactly right, but I grant you half a truth. We are in disguise. (drum roll) (majestic music) - King Richard! - It's the king! - It's King Richard! - King Richard! - (laughs) A rapid change of status eh Master Robin? Stand up all of you. - Your majesty, I do so welcome you back and apologize most humbly for the rudeness of our greeting. - I should probably have your head for it. But I do believe you may have been driven to this wild behavior. - Your Majesty, I crave a moment of your time. I would acquaint you with the condition of this country since you left your brother to rule in your absence. - Friar, I know how much the people suffer under these tyrants. That's why I'm here in disguise. - We welcome you sire, as your most loyal servants. - Loyal servants do not achieve a girth like yours without a meal or two of royal venison. - An old stag. Occasionally. - Don't worry big belly. You are pardoned your transgressions. And so the rest of you! (men cheering) (triumphant music) Put your bows on the cart- - Excuse me, your majesty. There's someone coming. (suspenseful music) - Robin! Robin! Get your bow, come with me. - Hey, up there. Whoa! - [Marion] There's no time to be wasted. Hurry, else Hilda will be married to the Sheriff. - What! - Forgive me my dear, we are newly arrived in this country and know not of what you speak. - My companion Hilda is to be married to the Sheriff of Nottingham, that would be awful. She's already married to one of King Richard's knights. - By the saints! - Then why would she commit bigamy? - The situation is desperate. The Sheriff is trying to force me to marry him. And Hilda has taken my place while I seek Robin's help. - Huh! Wha! - Please sir, do not question me further. Robin's the only one who can help us. - Don't be so hasty, dear Marion. These friars could perhaps be of assistance. - Then put bows in their hands and let's be off. - I like the idea of the bow. Although I've always preferred this. - And I feel more comfortable with one of these. - And you? - I think you know how well I wield this mace. - Robin, who are these monks? - Well, the one waving the broad sword with the royal crest is King Richard the Lionheart. (Marion gasps) This is the Abbot of Gloucester, this a curate and the man with a battleax- - Your father, my dear. - Oh! - Hello Marion. - Daniel. Thank heaven you're here. We must get back quickly or Hilda will be forced to marry the Sheriff in my place. Please, please do something before I faint. - This is no time to remember you're a lady. - A jolly party, but one that tarries too long I fear. - You're right, fat friar. Harness these two horses and we'll all jump in the cart. (tense music) (knocking on door) - [Woman] The Sheriff is still waiting milady. - Please tell him I shall soon be there. - Soon is not good enough. He wants you there now. - Just a few minutes to compose myself. This is a big step to be taking. - And the only way to take that step is to put your right foot forward. Come on now! - One moment. I feel faint. - If you faint, I shall be forced to carry you. Believe me, one way or another, you are going to the chapel. (dramatic tense music) (dramatic tense music continues) (villagers cheering) (horses neighing) (sword clangs) (sword clanging) (dog barking) - Let me go! - No, this is one time, you do exactly what I want. - No! - Aargh! - Uh uh uh, Sir Eustace. - It's the quickest way. - But not the nicest. (swords clattering) (dog barking) (dog yelping) - [Sheriff] Well, go on. - I've never performed a ceremony in this manner before. - Then improvise, get to the part about the ring. - I believe this may be it. (speaks Latin) (dramatic music) - I've wanted to do this for a long time. No one now shall deprive me of this pleasure. - I think I've had enough of this game. Let's see how you enjoy a fair match. (swords clattering) - [King] What are you doing in there! Open this door! - Better do as he says. - Behind you! (dramatic tense music continues) - [King] Open this door in the name of the King! (triumphant music) (sword clangs) (Sheriff grunts) - What news please, your Majesty, of my husband, Daniel. - Why don't you ask him yourself. - Oh praise be! - I better check on Marion. - Well it's a beautiful day for a wedding. Shame to waste it. Robin. Marion! (triumphant music) A word with you please. - Oh yes. - Well now, we have the Abbot of Gloucester to perform the ceremony. The Earl of Vaunt to give the bride away and limitless groomsmen. I'm sure the Sheriff has prepared a wonderful banquet and Hilda would love to return the dress she borrowed from Marion. I can think of no reason why we shouldn't see a wedding after all. - Your majesty, there's one thing missing. - What's that my dear Marion? - You haven't given us a present. - (laughs) Ask me anything you will it shall be yours. - I know what we'd like. The key to the Sheriff's cell. - (laughs) Most certainly. And the key to my Lord Lieutenants shall be buried under the tallest oak in your beloved Green Wood. (everyone laughing) (people cheering) (uplifting music)