Transcript for Divine Divas (2016) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- The divas are part of my world, and I'm part of theirs. They were never strangers to me. My grandfather had a theater. My mother is an actress and so am I. We have inherited his theater, Rival Theater, where I had my childhood's strongest memories, at the backstage, just by the stage. Being a woman Is very easy If you already are one But for those born to be John The transformation is a sacrifice You have to insist And make something You don't have appear And what you have You must make disappear Or keep it in the closet Je suis comme je suis The first dress I wore at a Carnival ball, Darlene Gloria lent me, the actress. Darlene lent me a dress and a wig. Wigs weren't common here. They all came from Paris or America. And I kept that wig for a while. So when I was home In the suburbs, in Piedade, and nobody was home - my mom and my sister were out and I was home alone, - I would wear the wig at the window facing a very busy street. So all the buses and people passing by would see me and think I was a woman. And there I was, face against the window, wearing Darlene's wig. And the people passing by thinking I was a woman. And that brought me great pleasure. So I wanted to be a woman! The only vanity I do have In life, which is something I really love, is theater and my dresses. I love them. This one I want to wear at the show opening. It was Glorinha Pires Rebelo who designed that dress. -Wow! -She gave it to me, -Look! -It's from her studio. And there is some jewelry your wear as well, right? Oh, right, the fashion jewelry is over there. All of this you wear together. I'm gonna put it right there so we can take a look. Italian, all of it is Italian. -I really like this. -If I went to a black tie dinner party or something like that of course I'd only wear the necklace, nothing more. But because it's a show, I feel like it works. We can overdo it a little bit, right? We can overdo it, yeah, I think so. Camille was the most revolutionary In terms of fashion, of being a sassy queen for the time. Because she wore clothes like this... She went platinum blonde with a hair this long back then. Camille couldn't walk on the street, she had to take a cab. Once, they almost overturned the cab. When she went to the beauty parlor, they would throw rocks at the door. I hid inside a car trunk twice to go to the beauty parlor. I used to wear eighteenth century styled clothes, like Dener. Those pleated clothes, vests, so hot... And me wearing velvet, flat shoes, the pants came all the way up here. Who made the clothes? Your mother, Camille? -Yes. -I drew far too much attention, I couldn't go out. I felt scared, but I went out anyway. You know how we are. Then I realized that everything I was doing was because theater wasn't in my life yet. That's why I dressed that way, to show off. I think that was it. It's the only explanation. I used to take the train in Oswaldo Cruz to go to Central do Brasil. Then I'd take the tram to Tiradentes Square. And I'd hang out there, watching the dolls with makeup on. But there were no transvestites. Just men with makeup on, looking flashy, like myself. And my influence came from revue, I'd stop by Joao Caetano Theater Recreio, that one doesn't exist anymore, and Carlos Gomes. I'd hang out by Carlos Gomes' doors, watching the showgirls go In. And I could never watch the show, because I was underaged. -How old were you? -About 13 or 14, that was in the fifties. Rio de Janeiro was always a target. If you were a star in Rio, you'd be a star anywhere in Brazil. And Rival Theater was our greatest university. I learned so much in there, I came out as a Silva Filho star already. He owned a big revue theater company at Carlos Gomes. I never thought, as a kid at theater doors to watch the showgirls, that I'd be the star In four revue plays. Only women, and me, a transvestite, starring. I'd say to myself: 'I can't believe I'm walking down these stairs with these women all around me, the male dancers holding my hand'. And me, jumping off a swing set. It was a dream come true, and Rival made it possible. Oh, oui! Diva is a very serious thing, right, I don't know. Diva is a very serious thing, the word diva. A diva is a diva, right? Am I a diva I wonder. Oh, God. Divas are those fabulous women, Maria Callas, those women are divine, divas, right? Being an artist is good. I like it. Back then you had to be very careful, it was awful, to put it simply. You had to be in the closet, afraid, repressed. No. I didn't change, my personality is the same, I didn't change at all, y'see? You have to take care of yourself, there are cares you must have. But... I'm happier this way. I've always had this thing about wanting to be more perfect. Y'know? From the beginning... Because I think in order to be a good transvestite you must have a nice skin, well done nails, a nice hand. That's my opinion. If you can't, cover yourself up, or don't do it. Because I see some people in the street... Scary even. First of all, to become a woman, you have to get rid of your beard. Nowadays, it doesn't hurt at all. By the fourth time, you're done. But in the past it would take you two or three years. So much suffering... It was hard, Leandra. But it was worth it. People always ask me if I'd go back. How can I go back to being a man? It's been more than forty years since I last saw men's clothes. I never wore men's clothes anymore. I can't even imagine how that would go. I had a wonderful childhood. My parents belonged to the upper middle class and we lived at Atlantic Avenue. I had everything I needed for a perfect education, because my mom's dream was for me to be a diplomat. Mom never accepted my life. And I respected that. I didn't mix things. She knew I had my gigs, but I didn't mix things nor mention anything. Of course, many people who come to my shows say, "God, what a transformation from what you are by day into what you become by night, with all the makeup and whatnot". The last things I put on are my earings, and then a woman takes over and I change completely. I become stronger. The uncertainties I have as a man go away when I become a woman. I get so much younger when I'm a woman on stage. I'd rather be an old transvestite or woman than something with no definition. Marquesa had that option and went back. She was living as a woman. Her mother didn't accept it. We all think differently, right? I don't know if my whole family was a bit crazy, but they didn't mind. - Brigitte! - Over here! Cross the stage, Brigitte. I can't walk fast, only in rollerblades. How is it... -Ok? -Ok, thank you. ...for a transvestite, a cross-dresser, whatever, so many names now, to get to his sixties, his seventies living as a woman like I do? Of course, I don't live with my makeup on. I hate putting on makeup, except to be on stage, then I love it. But I never go out with makeup on. Always natural. I'm part of an elderly club for women, all very normal. My life is kind of square even. But on stage you go all in and you do what you want. Hello, hello... My mother was never ashamed of me. That's very important, because Rog?ria doesn't have a sad queer life to tell. Since I was little, I was a spoiled child. My mother used to say: 'Everyone wanted to hold you in their arms. You were very, very handsome.' 'How about the artist, mom?' 'Oh, at the age of four you'd go down the stairs posing like Zigfeld Follies already.' And I'd say: 'But how, mom, if I never...' 'There's nothing wrong with you, darling. Mom was the one who gave you far too many hormones. That's why you are who you are.' During my childhood, the Rival Theater was a magic place, with funny and charming grown-ups, with huge birthday parties. I grew up there. Almost all artists that have been in Rival meet me now saying they met me as a child, at its hallways, offices, dressing-rooms. There I got my best memories of my father and my godfather. They were gays, as many around me were. I have never learned to be ashamed or embarrassed of that. I was still a child when my grandfather got sick and had to abandon the theater's administration. And I saw my mother struggle more and more for that place's survival. "A theater is not an inheritance, it is a mission", she said. I didn't understand that. My father and my godfather died when I was 12. That was when I became a professional actress. I followed my mother's footsteps and got into films and soap-operas. When I was 17, I was doing research for a character. I ended up going to a transvestites' show at Lapa. At the entrance, I had a surprise. "Am?rico Leal's granddaughter can come in for free!", they said at the ticket office. That is how I found out that my grandfather was one of the first businessmen to open his stage to men dressed as women in Brazil, in 1966. My mother had never told me that story, which I brought back accidentally. 2004 was Rival's 70th anniversary and she decided to invite Jane Di Castro to gather transvestite artists who started their careers at Rival for a new spectacle. Jane chose the name: "Divine Divas". It was the first time a saw all of them together onstage. That evening, still in the dressing-room, they told me stories about my theater and my family. Fujika told me about when my mom dressed as a transvestite to fill in for one of them in a number. The show went very well, but after it, dictatorship's censors went backstage to see who was that foul-mouthed and feminine 'fag'. My mother had to prove she was a woman. Her of all people, the daughter of the owner of the theater. Through the divas' eyes, my past had a glow that was unknown to me and which, from that moment on, became more and more important to me. Ten years later, it was my turn to reunite them at Rival for a celebration. After a 50-year career; they were back at the theater that took them in and established them. A place that belongs to me and to so many others at the same time. A theater that marked so many lives and that still converges so many stories. I put makeup on Tonia. The beautiful actress Tonia Carrero and half the stars of Brazilian cinema. I was a make-up artist as Astolfo Dito, I did not know because he worked at Tupi TV network. While I battled for my job as a makeup artist, I asked Fernanda Montenegro one night: 'What does it feel like to be onstage?' And the diva answered me: Being onstage, honey, in movies, on TV is living another life, being someone else besides yourself.' Sol let my hair grow and I did what I always wanted to do: I put on some red lipstick and I went to Paris to be a star. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen I'm here in Brazil to present you a show Good evening After last night I'm every woman I've seen their joys and melodramas I'm sentimental And sometimes a fatal woman also If you condemn me If my heart burns In the spotlight Those who look for me in their hearts each night I'm every woman I sing, I dance, it's all a program I am queen of disco And a friend of Pierrot's also If you forgive me When I throw myself out there And I see the songs Through the seasons of my life I'm every woman I've seen their joys and melodramas I am queen of disco And a friend of Pierrot's also If you condemn me If my heart burns In the spotlight Those who look for me in their hearts each night Sir? I'm every woman I like sequins, stress, telegrams The first evening Then the one and that also And my life as a star Ends in the black I'm every woman I'm every woman I'm every woman I'm every woman Every woman So everyone with their lyrics in hand. What's the song? The opening theme... 'Alo alo Brasil' -I know it by heart. -Really? People, "Alo alo Brasil", get it. Girl, aren't you gonna sing? Fujika de Halliday? Where is she? C'mon, let's go. Allez-y! Is the shade and the sound ok? If it's too hard standing for a long time, I understand. No, no, not a problem, I'm ok. First let's do a... I can handle it. A warm up. So we can get ready. Yes, make room between yourselves. Space, more space. More space. We are going to start every day at five. Take this moment to relax your body. That's it. When you're done, do it the other way around. That's it. If you've never done it, take the chance to... It's very nice. ...take the chance to do it together. It's relaxing. Breath in. With sound. Once again, very good, breath in. Breath out, breath out, breath out. This expectation of being back at the age of seventy to perform. You are inside the dressing room, Rival is packed. Wow. -How does it feel? -I'll tell you one thing: it will be a beautiful swan song for me. I'm very touched by it. I'm crying, I'm all wet. But I am, I'm very touched by it. And I think you did your best for me. Thank you, thank you so much. She's tearing up, she sounds all emotional. Rog?ria and I, we would shake our booties beneath Bola Preta carnival block. I always enjoyed it, because there was a Sodre thing there playing. I loved it I would get my groove on. One day, the police arrived. They arrested them first. I was always the naughtiest of the bunch. -You were the one who opened their car. -I left really fast, running. I ran so much they didn't catch me. Then I went back slowly and I saw them being arrested. We were all arrested, you went there and lifted... And I saw they were arresting them, but they left that thing... -They didn't look the door. -That thing that locks it. When the four left to get more people, I came from the back. I opened the car door, everybody ran. 'Run, faggots!'. I ran so much that day I ended up at Maua Square. It was a terrible moment for Brazil politically. But we had to stay quiet, because dressing as women we were there at the edge of the abyss. How was I gonna get into more trouble? I was trouble already, honey. I was dressed like a woman. And I hadn't even cut off my dick yet. That's very symbolic, right, Brigitte? Are you crazy? Nobody would talk about politics. We were horrified, quiet, and they would let us work. Brazilians didn't have anywhere to go, everybody was running away from the coup. The only thing that could entertain Brazilians was what? -Us! -Us! That's how it all began. As there were no more performances, this transvestites show was created. And this was the first show we put on, International 7. I had a vedette number. I did a showgirl's number based on Marilyn Monroe's 'My Heart Belongs to Daddy'. And I would start with my back to the audience saying 'My name is Marquesa and I'm dying to get one of you. And I would turn to face the audience. When I turned, people took pictures of me and everyone went crazy. Because, truth be told, back then, me and Brigitte de Buzios were the most handsome transvestites in Brazil. Les Girls, hey, Les Girls Hey hey hey Les Girls Les Girls is your charm touch? Being so well everyday Les Girls is not to care, it's to drink Is having sex? sexy mania I'm Les Girls, I'm Les Girls I'm Les Girls This was the show's opening and closing theme. Not even in Paris did we have a show such as Les Girls. It wasn't a transvestites taking turns kind of show. No. We were actresses. There were choreographers, a piano, drums, double bass. That was the biggest test for us cross-dressing artists. Because they wanted actresses acting. I didn't think it was a promising career, being a theater transvestite, that is. Because we weren't taken seriously. We were forbidden everywhere, we couldn't even do TV. We put on a show, but couldn't be interviewed about it. To be on magazines, the pictures had to be all censored. At the theater door, you had to get a stamp from censorship. We had to perform to the censors before premiering a show. Everything was very complicated, everything was forbidden. We would leave Rival to go to Posto 6. We had to take off our wigs, often wash our faces And they would stop the cab in the middle of the road, to know where we were going. 'We are going to a club' Sometimes they would let us off the hook, let it slide. But sometimes they would get curious. 'You look like a woman, are you a man? How are you?' So on and so forth. Those same old stories. In 850 Paulo, I was arrested because I was dressed like a woman in the streets. They looked at my ID, Walter Fernando de Gonzales, so they took me to the station. And I remember that Silvio Santos... It was on the papers because I was already known in 850 Paulo. The following day, it was on the papers that I had been arrested dressed like a woman. They showed me on Silvio Santos' program, walking down the street, shopping. So people could say if I had the right to live like that. It was tough, and I had to go through all this stuff. But all these obstacles didn't stop me from doing what I wanted to do: to live like this. This is how I was going to live. And that was it. What could it be, could it be That lives in these lover's ideas That the most delirious poets sing That the drunk prophets swear That is in the crippled's pilgramage That is in the miserable's fantasies That is in the whore's habits In the thug's plan, the outcast's In every way What could it be, could it be What is not certain, nor ever will be What can't be fixed nor ever will be What doesn't make sense What could it be, could it be That all the warnings will not prevent Because every laughter will bless Because every bell will toll Because every anthem will praise And all the boys will crack And all the fates will meet And even Our Heavenly Father who never went there Looking upon such hell shall bless it Valeria, when you first arrived in Paris, that you looked at it, that world where everybody was ready. -Right, yeah. -You weren't ready. -No, not yet. -Rog?ria wasn't ready, I wasn't ready. What was your reaction when you saw a Capucine, a Bambi, all those beauties? -I couldn't believe it. -Neither could I. When I got there, I didn't even dress as a woman. I also wore men's clothes. It was there I started to come out as a woman. Of course, I get there, go to the merry-go-round, and I see these pictures of Bambi, Capucine, Xuxu, those beauties. I thought to myself: Breathtaking, all of them. 'What am I gonna do over here?' But at night, while performing, I realized I was going to be better than most of them. And that's what happened. That's why I stayed. The first thing I did was having my nose done. I had it done three times. I had my ears done twice. My ears where huge, I could only cover them up with my hair. I had my lips done, I made them smaller. I had very ethnic lips. Then, I shaved and got my breasts. But I redid the breasts later. I had them redone in Hong Kong. I saw a Chinese woman with beautiful breasts and I asked her: 'Where did you get those?' She said a doctor had given her a card and she went there. I had money to spare, so I redid my breasts. It was the most impressive thing I had ever seen. It was a dentist's chair, you got your breasts done and they would give you local anesthesia, to sedate you. I wasn't afraid of anything, I wanted to be beautiful and happy. We were guinea pigs for hormones, honey. Do you wanna take hormones without knowing what's going to happen to you? You would go to a drugstore and the guy would tell you: 'It's Progynon, 500mg'. You put your arm out, barn, everyday taking hormones. We didn't even know what hormones were, if they were good for you, but our breasts would grow. There was a time my boobs became this big, as big as they are now, because now they're not hormones, they're silicone. But my boobs became this big just from taking hormones. People thought they were implants, no, they were hormones. And everybody started taking hormones. Guinea pigs. I was the one who took Jane to have her breasts done. I told them to do it like Jayne Mansfield, this big. The day she saw them, we had a fight. I told them to do them big because she was a big girl. And she was like 'son of a bitch, you ruined my life'. I told her 'Let's go, the guy will give you implants.' And she had a lot of money. I told her 'Let's go.' So I went to the doctor, and he would tell me: 'If you bring a friend to have her implants done by me, I'll charge you cheaper for your other implant.' -Who did I bring? Jane. -Dr. Delebe was the most expensive one. Up to this day she says that when she goes to bed: 'You fucking faggot, I lost my savings because of you.' But the truth is I always cared a lot about her, and she looked amazing like that. I have to say goodbye now. I have to say goodbye, the show is about to start. Maybe they'll invite me for a number. I'm going inside to meet her. Because Rog?ria that speaks like this 'Hi, darling!' Val?ria has that huge mouth. Divina Val?ria. And Jane Di Castro sings in French. She had the idea for this show and invited me. So I'm going... Hugs and kisses. No. "Pay attention to the newbie". Oh, and there's another one, the best of all. That's Fujika de Halliday. She's dark colored and is muse for teenagers. A muse? And the youngest in the cast. You add all our ages together, you'll get 500 years. I'm leaving now. Then I go in, right? Have you ever thought about getting surgery? I did, but then I thought otherwise. I told Alfredo I was going to get the surgery and he was like "Are you crazy?" And then I thought carefully about it, and I read a lot, right. So I met these Brazilians who had had surgery in Paris. I ordered cake, tea... And all of them 'Do it, it's amazing, it's divine.' Until only one of them, the one who gave me Pepe, my dog, told me: 'Fujika, don't do it. There's no turning back.' In Spain, where they wanted to cut my dick off... -So you could get some work... -I was unemployed. Tell them this story, it's a good one. It was Franco's time, you know. But, Spain in the seventies, even with Franco, it was in-sa-ne! You know what I mean? The ridiculous thing was: you could work like that, but you had to be operated. And there would be no way I would cut it off. Because, in my mind, there's a woman: she comes out, but she only wants to fool around, she wants to be Guinevere, Lancelot and Camelot. I mean, it's crazy the gay thing in my head, and I accept it wonderfully well, but I thank God I'm a man. Mister Astolfo Barroso Pinto, Mister Rog?ria. Let's go. Come forward. Yes, we have bananas. Bananas galore. Now, you, do like that. You come here. From all over the world, man or woman. -Stay in her line. -Bananas all around. Maybe here, maybe there. Rog?ria will come this way, ok? Ok? -Bananas, girls! -Change! -They have vitamins! -Twerk it! -Banana is fattening and makes us grow! -Change! -The coffee will go to France, yeah. -Arms open wide! In the whole world, man or woman. Man or woman. Bananas all around! -Then it's over, isn't it? -Yeah. Bananas,bananas,bananas! If I wasn't an artist, I don't know if I'd be a transvestite at that time. Really? Wow! What would you be? I don't know if I would take another path. I actually think I became a transvestite because I was an artist. One thing led to another, y'see. I think if I wasn't an artist, on stage, an artist working and singing I don't know if I would have been a transvestite. No, Val?ria, you have a woman inside yourself, nonsense, it's a female thing. I do, but... I don't know, I tell you, I don't know. Well, no one became a transvestite to work as a prostitute. -I know... -I have nothing against prostitution, to me it's a normal thing. It should even be legalized, particularly transvestites who don't have any space. A non-prostitute transvestite will starve to death. Because there are no jobs. Being a transvestite, nowadays, it got worse. Because they aren't artists, there's also no space for them. At that time, there was space, we'd work from Tuesdays to Sundays. With two sessions on Thursdays Three sessions on Thursdays Three on Saturdays, three on Sundays. Full house. Nowadays, there's no space to work. No theater, nowhere to work. They don't have this space, what can they do? Prostitution! Earn their money, or they will starve to death. Therefore, I'm totally in favor of prostitution. Everyone does what they want with their bodies. You gotta earn some money, honey. Gotta eat, gotta drink, gotta dress up. Not being an outlaw, I accept it all; I don't like criminality, If she's a fine prostitute, it's cool. I have nothing against it. Look, throughout my life, I had one sugar daddy only. It's very nice to have a sugar daddy, he gives you diamonds, emeralds. And by the time he gets to sleep with you, he just snores. If you aren't a whore, it's a bitch. The first time the madam sent me to a client, she said: 'If you don't like him, that's fine. But if you do, order some champagne.' When I looked at him, I went bananas. I mean, I'd do him for free. Then I told him: 'Look...' I didn't speak French at that time 'You need to order a champagne, that other girl is the one who is going to drink it Her name is Zaza Dior' - eventually the actual Dior sued her. 'I won't drink it'. She was sued, really? She was. She had to take away Dior's name. Then, he asked me: 'What about me? How much is the total? Because I want to sleep with you.' So I told him: 'Rien!'. Nothing! He trembled. Because over there, there's no way a whore works for free. Then, the next day, he came in with a chocolate box and flowers to propose. I told him: "Hell, no! Marriage, no!". That was not the deal! I'm not one of those crazy bitches who wear an apron and make omelets. I'm the one whose husband cooks dinner and sends it to the stage. Translation: she is supposed to be the mistress, the other one. Aah! I was always a great mistress. She's no wife material, she's the mistress. -Excuse me? -Oh, may I help you, honey? I'm from Curitiba and I think you're the best! Oh, thank you! I was there, then I saw you and I couldn't resist: you're fantastic! Thank you, honey. You are a doll. Thank you! I must have been around 7 years old. I remember running around Rival's backstage when a strong hand grabbed me. When I turned, it was a woman. She said, "You're blonde and fair, like me. Whenever you want pink cheeks, don't put on rouge. Just pinch them, like Scarlett O'Hara did". It was Rog?ria. That is my first memory of her. I insist on telling you That our show Is a spectacle! Standing up. You come from here. -The theater is crowded. -It's crowded? Ten years without performing. It's a full house. -Then you look for your pills. -I have to take my pills! -Oh, that's wonderful! -It's crowded, Brigitte! -Oh, that's wonderful! -Packed? -We're going to rock it! -Are we? Are we? The hell we aren't! And then you say: 'I wish my mom', that story. Right, I wish my mother could be here tonight. But I'm going to pay a tribute to all mothers. Oh, darling, that's beautiful. Because I - mom never missed a show Where I performed. For the first time, I will perform and mom won't be here. My entire family has always seen my shows. Even in New York. One would say it would be tougher for them to watch me in NY, when I was working there. But they all went to America to come see me working. -Are you really taking these pills now? -For sure! I lived in America during the Golden Years, when everyone was going to Woodstock, But I didn't fit in with the hippies, I thought they were kind of messy. Hippie was not a movement I intended to belong to. I found the Punks, the Darks beautiful but they also weren't my deal. I was on my own, y'know? I didn't want to belong to any group. I didn't want to be a communist, a socialist, I was just fine with the freedom over there, it was my right, after all. 69. Last century. I arrived in New York. My uncle bought me a plane ticket. Because he had seen a show there, at Club 82. And he told me my future would be over there. In America, there were two transvestites' clubs. One in San Francisco, the other in New York. It was sort of 'off off Broadway'. But everyone from Broadway would attend. There were three to four concerts per weekend, y'know. Performances with ballet dancers, showgirls and the attractions. It was a night club, but with a Broadway stage. Lighting from the back, no problems whatsoever holding 600 people, it was spectacular. So much that, when I started there, I wasn't a Show girl 'You're gonna be an attraction'. Because I showed them my CV from Brazil They said 'Well, she's not fooling around, she has worked there She's an exotic attraction.' And there had never been another Brazilian there. They even called me Brazilian Bombshell. And I thought: 'That's Carmen's I'm not going to take that away from her.' And at that time, even the drugs were charming, y'know? Lou Reed had this club close to the 82, the 0868. At C.B.G.B., there was Lou Reed, Debbie Harry, Blondie I liked her better than Madonna. Hey, let's do it like that! Let's rehearse one last time! Because Brigitte needs to leave. Sorry, I have to go. I can't wait any longer. -Let it go. -One last time. It doesn't matter, you can cut me off the show, even off the movie. Why all that? Girl, why this scene?! I have this responsibility. It's not a scene, It's almost 9 pm. People, she's responsible for her aunt, she's 95 years old. Then just tell him you're leaving, dear; you don't need to shout. I'm not shouting, I warned you girls before. -You can go, darling. -Then, goodbye! OK, let's rehearse without her. My aunt came to stay at my place for ten days while her apartment was being fumigated, so she wouldn't have to deal with the smell. It's been 15 years. But it's been a pleasure, y'know. No one forced me to do it, I wanted to. No problem. The thing is when we do it for love, not for money or anything, it's ok. But the most difficult of all, since no one has lightened up my cigarette, I will tell you: it is to be 69 years old still a sex symbol. Leandra, my darling! -Are you ok? -I'm fine, and you? Look, I might tell you that I had a considerable improvement, honestly. Marquesa, get off the table, Marquesa! How can one eat so much? Are you going to sing, already? Beautiful! Yes! Now turn around, smiling. -Marquesa is an artist! -She is a great artist. She was a great artist, she can sing, entertainment. At Rival, she had a pretty good phase along with me, everybody liked her "Hello, Dolly!", she used to joke around, speak in German. She had such a fall, all of a sudden, now she's a different person. She's forcing because she is an artist. An artist dies on stage. Oh, Marquesa, I remember that. "The Devil's Wedding". That was wonderful! It revolutionized the sixties! At that time, wow! This was read all over Brazil! It was the number one Fatos e Fotos magazine sold. A reporter told me. There were five issues of Fatos e Fotos. Overnight, I became known all over Brazil. The only gay nightclub at that time was Alfredo's. And Alfredo, who was Fred's maitre, wanted to advertise the nightclub as a gay nightclub. Then he told me: 'Marquesa, I'm hosting a party that Copacabana has never seen. And I wanted you to play the bride.' I said: 'Sure, I'm in!' When the nightclub's doors were opened it was like the Cannes Film Festival. I had never seen such a thing. There were dozens of photographers, They were all saying: 'Look, that faggot! Marquesa!' and so on. I came back home, hid the dress under my bed so my mother wouldn't know, no one in the family knew about that. The next day, I was front page of every single newspaper, with all sorts of headlines. For example, one of them wrote: "Freaky faggot gets married in Copacabana". It was out at Reporter Esso, at Dom Helder Camara's show. It was then when my mother found out. She went mad. My sister convinced my mother to put me in a sanatorium, that I had to be crazy. Then I went to a sanatorium in Botafogo, and I was admitted without knowing they would do so. Mother told me they would run some tests, yadda yadda, then I saw all those nurses in my home. I asked 'What's this?' and she said: 'Oh, you're going on an ambulance.' I thought 'Is this necessary?' But, ok, I went. When I got there, I sat down near the ward and I waited. Over an hour, and nothing happened. Then I called a nurse and asked him: 'I'm waiting for my exam, an encephalogram?' And he said: 'No, you're an internee.' 'What? An internee?' 'I want to talk to my mother.' 'You can't.' Then I cried a lot. Then, y'know, God works in mysterious ways. A nurse asked me: 'Are you familiar with Alfredo Magalhaes Von Bertrand?' I said: 'Yes, I am. Her name is Brigitte de Buzios.' 'I know her!' He told me: 'She was here some time ago and I took care of her.' Then I said: 'So you're going to take care of me.' I came to my mom and said, 'You did this following my sister's advice. Fine. But don't do this again, because I am who I am, mom'. She cried and cried. That's why I said to myself that I would keep on being who I am but without hurting her. That's how I lived. Right before she died - my friend August was by my side - she turned to me and said, 'Will you ever forgive for having sent you to a sanatorium?' I said, 'My God, mom, you still remember that? Don't be silly. That's water under the bridge'. The physicians at that time, they would diagnose me as crazy. I was crazy at that time! I attended to deep sleep therapy, I took insulin. All those things Paulo Coelho said he was submitted to. Everybody was. But it was fine. I did the treatment, took lots of soothing pills, y'know? It was fattening, that was the only problem. But I was all right, I'd take classes, talk to the doctors. It didn't change anything in my mind. But why? At 14, 15, what were you thinking at that time? -I already wanted to be what I am. -Which is? What I am now, I can't define myself. But you had the desire of being a woman? No, it wasn't that. Maybe. There was this one day at school 'What do you want be when you grow up?' 'I want to get married, have children and be a housewife.' My teacher was shocked. At the French Lyc?e, imagine that. We used to say those things, y'know? We only learned to control ourselves later. You can't say everything you think, everything you want. You have to be smooth, right? Slowly, we learn. With the insulin, the sleep treatment, I learned to tone down, to agree with society. We can't go against society, otherwise, what do we turn into? An animal? An endangered animal? New York, New York I want to wake up in... Wait for the arrangement! -It's your first time... -Come along with me, with me! "That sleeps." Rog?ria. -And find I'm king of the hill. -No ,Rog?ria. -It's Rog?ria's. -Top of the heap. -No, it's Rog?ria's. -This part is Rog?ria. Rog?ria. Rog?ria. Break. Yesterday was one thing, today is another one. It's all the same. It isn't. Right here, it was the three singing together. There was already a choreography for that. And now it's changed. Guys, let the conductor talk, we're here as students! Rog?ria, if he wants to talk, ok, but we also want to talk. -If I want to talk, I'll talk. -But he knows better... But if you're going to conduct that way, come on, you talk whenever you want. That's why we rehearse. To discuss, check the ideas, everything. It's new for you. Yeah, you got here today, we've been here for two days, it was all changed. The trio together, now. I want to make a brand new start of it, New York, New York Wait, wait. I'm lost. Where's Jonas with the paper? -This is right! -Jonas! I wanna wake up in the city That never sleeps One more. To find I'm king of the hill Top of the heap Are we supposed to hold arms, the three of us? Come here, like that, I'll hold you girls. No wait, one more time. -5, 6, 7, 8. -Do we tap the left or the right feet? Left, then right. Oh, sure. Let's go. Now it's me. No, Val?ria! If I can make it there -May I seat down? -Sure! Once, I was accompanying a friend until Engenho de Dentro. But that driver, in particular, wasn't used with driving at night. And when we were coming back, at 6:30 AM, on that one bifurcation road coming from Meier, between Quinta da Boa Vista and Maracana?' You know that transit Sign? If I didn't crash on that sign, we'd all be dead. Down there. And right before we crashed, the speed wasn't too high. So, I thought I could take the hit, but, my dear I went straight ahead. Bumped my head. At this time, I did like this. Saint Lucy had just saved me. Both eyes. I was bleeding so much. I almost died because of the blood I lost. And then I put my hands in my head: 'Don't touch my hair!' I was losing blood! 'Don't touch my hair!' All that blood story, I only found out later when I met-with the doctor. 'Don't touch my hair! I'm fine!' Then I put my finger in my mouth, a very stupid thing, and puked all over. It was unbelievable. But, when I looked in the mirror ten days later, I thought: 'It's over. Your career is over. No one's going to kiss you in the forehead any more. Your career depends on you looks.' Ten days later, I asked my mother to get me out of the hospital. Because, at the same time, I tried to convince myself that either I had to take a break or I would die. There was too much work, too many things going on, excessively Rog?ria. With a broken face. As if a tiger had scratched all over. 45 days later, I was back. But Bibi Ferreira gave me precious advice: 'The face doesn't matter. Plastic surgery works for that. You didn't break a leg. You can come back on stage.' And the most important thing: I was the star of Agildo's musicals, singing 'Toutes les femmes'. Then journalist Artur da Tavola wrote: 'She should be singing on TV, she's Rog?ria, etc...'. And I did it all with a broken face. So, darling: beauty is only skin deep. It's got to come from the inside! And the scars, for a long time, I used to wear a ribbon to cover. And every time I hosted the Carnaval, for over 20 years the fags would come near me and say: 'Oh, but that light makes you horrible, those scars are flashing.' And I'd ask them: 'What about my work?' 'Oh, you're simply wonderful!' 'Then fuck off, you faggot!' I look for it But I can't find it When I laugh I don't feel it I don't know how to live If I don't have you My love I don't know How to live If I don't have... I don't know how to live If I don't have you I don't know how to live If I don't have you I don't know how to live If I don't have you I don't know how to live If I don't have you Have I explained what is love? I didn't, right? My dear God... Love. What is love? Love is having an orgasm; love is feeling that pain that makes you faint, that make you go like this... So it is: feeling horny, heart pain, french kiss, crying -all together! I have lovers. It's a very manly thing. Let me show you my man side now. Why would I have only one if I could have plenty? This side of mine is very manly. Because that love problem was solved when I was 19 years old. Because I was really loved and I loved deeply. I wonder if I had never been loved, that would have been horrible. It would be very sad. But I was. And now, I'm loved by the Brazilian people, because I am the Brazilian family's transvestite. Now, I want to know something about you all. What's the worst about reaching 70 years old? Look, honestly, my problem is the choreography. It makes me weary. In my shows, I always say this quote: 'I didn't get old, I accumulated youth.' And I'll quote Norma Desmond: 'The stars are ageless'. And you, Leoparda? Me? I have nothing to complain, honey. For me, it can start anytime. 6 AM, midday, midnight. Now that everything is beautiful here, you didn't say a thing! I'm watching you! -She's listening. She's just tired. -My concern is: I need to know how far should I go, before you girls get exhausted. I'm getting kind of tired, I tell you. Sometimes I come and I want to leave. I think we're reaching the final stretch, so we have to give the most of ourselves for the show. We also have to think that it's not an individual show. It's a group. Wait just a little, one at a time. If the rehearsals take some extra hour or two, no problem. We have to be ready for Friday. Now let me adjust right here... Do you know who gave me this dress? -Marlene, the singer. -No kidding. She gave me that dress years ago. I have never worn it. Because she's shorter than me. Then I wore it and I felt weird. But it's not bothering me. I'm feeling funny, but it's not bothering me at all. Sol rushed and took the bus. I was very tired, I sat down, y'know. Then I felt sleepy, y'know? When you're very tired you drowse, right? Then this gentleman by my side, he was wearing a suit, very elegant, He poked me and said: 'Madam'? Don't sleep, for in that sleep of death what dreams may come! William Shakespeare.' Then I suddenly woke up, scared. Then he started talking again, louder I was feeling so drowsy 'Madam, don't sleep, for in that sleep of death what dreams may come!' William Shakespeare.' I got really pissed. Then I was drowsing again, almost dreaming, he poked me, harder: 'Madam, don't sleep! For in that sleep of death what dreams may come! William Shakespeare.' Then I had no doubt. I told him: 'Dear sir, you know what? Go fuck yourself! Nelson Rodrigues!' I was a high society hair stylist. I had a high reputation, I had been on the newspapers. I was exclusively working for the high society, you know? You told me once that you became a hair stylist so you could meet Marlene. Oh yeah, I became a hair stylist so I could meet her. I was sure I would do her hair one day. Can you believe it? I was 9 years old and I used to listen to Cesar de Alencar's show, Manoel Barcelos' show, and I had never seen Marlene in my life. For coincidence, I used to wrap some sheets around my body, tied them together. I used to sing along with her at home, but I had never seen her live. I didn't own a TV set at that time. TV is relatively new in Brazil. Then, when I was 17, a good friend of mine introduced me to Marlene. And I was friends with Marlene her whole life. I became her hair stylist, makeup artist, chose her clothes, I did it all. Then, all of a sudden, I can't really tell you the reason, my artistic vocation, that feeling that pushes you toward the stage, It looked a lot like her. I began my career doing Marlene's impersonations, at the Rival Theatre. The first time I saw Camille was in an interview promoting Miguel's second play, I guess I didn't really get the character, she was telling her story and on. I kept wondering what was her actual deal. Then, a friend in common introduced us. -It was Gille. -Gille, the makeup artist. He told him: 'Fabricio, come on! Stop this madness, Why are you so obsessed with Camille? Look, she works all daylong with a bag this big, y'know. She doesn't have a penny to her name. She's poor.' -Didn't he say that? -He did. He meant that, at first, I had fallen in love with the star, I didn't actually know the person, y'know? But it wasn't shocking at all to me. Camille is a star 24/7. I have an astrologist, Diana, she used to tell me, over and over 'Look, there's this person in your life, his sign is Cancer, and you'll meet him in such a way.' I would tell her: ?Diana, you're crazy. That prediction is wrong.' And, sure enough, it happened. My sister, at first, used to say: 'That's outrageous! You and a boy toy!' Nowadays, she loves him. She phones me every day. I was also a bit suspicious, I must say. We all were. I could only believe it after a while. I told her: 'He's an angel! He took her from the hospital to his mother's house, his mother helped with the home care. I had never seen such a thing in my life. The physicians told him, didn't they? That I wasn't going to live. -And how did you react to this period? -We accompanied her in the hospital, we stayed there for exactly 42 days. It was a very tough period. -They thought I had leukemia. -I got really scared. That loss feeling, that everything would be over. Everything. Everything revolves around Camille. -But the doctor... -Not only for me, but for her entire family. We revolve around her, she's our main star. I think art is too divine to be normal. I think all artists have a different lighting, I don't know why. I think some different light from God penetrates, a spirit, I don't know what it is. It's incredible, isn't it? If you're feeling like... Once you go on stage, you forget everything. I find it wonderful. Maestro! I was born in Oswaldo Cruz. Ever heard of it? Moved to Bento Ribeiro and then Madureira. Zaquia Jorge, great Showgirl, wanted to travel the world, Luxemburg, New York, but it was no walk in the park. I've got beaten up at school, at home and by the police, with boom sticks. Oh, but such beautiful boom sticks. I've also starved, y'all. Sometimes I'd have a latte for breakfast, a latte for lunch and a latte for dinner. People would ask me 'Why are you so skinny?', and I'd 90 'Yeah, well, I got my mouth shut.' That's fine though, because I went through all that, but I came back swinging. My voice can fly away... Hm, no, it's too... I'm not feeling that... Alright. My voice... that's it... My voice... Now I got it. Give me that... ok?' Let's go, that's it. -My voice... -I can't feel the... She's trying to get to the tone. Play me the tone. My voice can fly away, I can overcome Any wound, any time, -Stay on the lower register. -Any loneliness, -Deep voice, completely still. -With no control. Every form of song, that is my voice, The one that comes out of my heart. And will come back, even if I don't want it Through the furthest paths, through the dreams I've dreamed It will be the reflex of a love that I felt like living It will be the background music of how much I've felt. Listen to my sound, my old sound I used to sing at the evangelical church. At the choir of evangelical church. My whole family is evangelical, and I was too. Until 14, I would go to church. Then they found out about me and kicked me out. It was fine with me. I learned with life. I didn't turn into a criminal, I'm a family person, because I kept all my principles, the way I was raised by my mother. I do have a temper, sometimes I'm a little aggressive, due to what I've been through. I get a little... but now it's under control. I've had worse days. I used to be very violent. Everything that I've done in my life, I've done it right. Today I cut everything down. I live a humble life. I've already lavished a lot, when I could. Nowadays I don't have the money I used to. It's been hard. At my age, one can't afford to travel and make the money I used to make, when I was younger. I'm about to retire. He's already retired. That will make things better. At the end of the day, I think I did everything right. My life's all figured out. I moved to Rio at the age of 16, 17, I came to Copacabana and stayed at this inn. I came from the countryside. I am from the countryside. So then we went out, we sat on a bench at Paris Square. That was March 7, 1967. And we just chatted. It was all very new to me. So I said 'Look, I really liked you' I told her my story, she told me hers, how she lived with her parents in Madureira. I don't know how our friendship happened, but I knew it would be forever. And as a twist of fate, by now, one can't afford to have adventures, right? So it's been eternal. I lost my job, because of it prejudice. I used to take the guys to the theater, to Rival Theater. It's something almost inherent, this thing we have with the Rival. It's funny. When we were younger, I used to take my colleagues to the theater. All of a sudden, I would get fired. How was this discrimination perceived? A look, the way we were treated. There was this once, at a restaurant in Cinelandia, we went there to get a snack, after we sat, this guy tried to kick us out. I told him 'No, sir. We deserve respect'. I've always stood up for myself. When I look at someone, I'd look them straight in t-he eye, y'know? Have you ever been jealous of her work? No, on the contrary. I'm very proud of her work. I'm sorry. No, nothing of nothing No! I don't feel sorry about anything Not the good things people have done to me Not the bad things, It's all the same to me. No, nothing of nothing No! I don't feel sorry about anything Because my life, my joys Today They begin with you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Thank you very much. I dedicate this song to the love of my life. We've been together for 46 years. And only now we were able to get married. And he's at the same place where he met me in 1967. Otavio, this is for you. Eloina has always been the party one. I've always been the most damaged... amongst them all. I think -Jane, for example. She's always been more prudish, always with this forty-something-year relationship. Not me. The problem with Eloina is that when I met her for the first time, she was already like that, a loose cannon, because every showgirl is always a loose cannon. I've never met a sane showgirl. They all had a temper. So Eloina got it all from them. She was influenced by the stardom. She got a little bit of each one's personality, because each of them had their own traces, and Eloina unified all those personalities. That's why she's like that: unattached. She's always thinking about the present, she just wants to live. Sea Mysterious sea I am fascinated by the nude. I love to see it. I like to seat in Copacabana just to see a beautiful lady passing by, as well as the men. Once I went out and I watched a presentation that featured a naked man. Leandra, that hit me in the head, and I thought: 'If there are shows with naked men here, why can't I do it in Brazil?' It came to me intuitively. That's how. My intention wasn't necessarily to make money. I did it because I thought it would please the audience and it would work. I decided to contact the theaters, to see if I could make that kind of show. There was nothing. It was a show featuring a comic, I did my numbers and the boys would walk the runway naked. In the end, they would come in with their dicks hard. After six months, I earned money. A lot of money. I added lighting. I brought big shots. Maneco Quindere did the lighting for The Leopards. I had showers installed on stage. We would call a gay guy and a girl to give the boys a shower. One night, I even got a jaguar on stage as a gift. One of the Leopards was given a car on stage. The key with all the papers. It was the first show inside Galeria Alaska. It was so revolutionary, when I was the first transvestite dressed as a Samba School Queen. In 1976, for the winning samba school of the parade that year. It was Joaozinho Trinta's debut at Beija-Flor School. And he made me the Samba School Queen. Everybody says today that Monique Evans was the first Samba School Queen, because she's a woman, but I have pages and pages from magazines that show I was the real first one. Once I did a Carnaval edition of the Leopardos ball with Ricardo Amaral. And I came up with the idea of shop windows, in which the boys would be masturbating during a carnival party. It was such a frenzy, with the gays and transvestites all touching the windows to see the naked boys, that I even got hit in the head. I was like 'Oh my God. It looks like a scene from a Fellini movie!'. I've always raved towards that, y'know? I love movies. When you go to the movies, you always leave amazed by something. I think that every theater and every gay club have that to thank me for. That's why when I go to a gay club, they don't charge me for anything. They say I'm their godmother, that I'm responsible for all that naughty, Was it hard for you to end it? It was, but the whole thing was already a bit played-out. Because when I did it, I was absolute. There was no one else. It was very hard to get all those men naked out there, honey. However, I always had a steady hand. I was though even with the transvestites, why wouldn't I be with the boys? With time though, it became something trivial. I did get money with The Leopards, can't tell you otherwise. In a single night, I tell everybody this, I got enough money to buy an automobile. The lines would go around the block. And what did you do with all that money? I can't even tell you. At some point I lost track on how much I'd spend on dresses, shoes, blouses. I would never do the same today, but I did it at the time, what can I do? I don't deny it. People tell me 'What a crazy money-spending bitch!' I just spent it all. And if you ask me on what, I won't be able to tell you. I can't tell you. I just spent it. I don't want to do shows anymore, y'know? I've been wanting to retire, because I don't have the nerve anymore. Put on makeup, dress up, y'know? As soon as it starts, I want to be done with it. Can you imagine such a thing? I don't care about the age thing, y'know? I've never had a midlife crisis. Like 'Oh My God, I'm getting old!' Rog?ria used to say that a lot. 'Oh My God!' Once Rog?ria and I were hanging out arm in arm, having a chat, and she goes: 'My God, Holiday!', she calls me Holiday, 'We're so old!' She does that with her beautiful hands, right? 'My God! What am I gonna do?' Rog?ria has such a funny character. I was given a rose once at the theater. I was at The Rival. No card, nothing. Then I go to the pre-carnival ball, and my friend Guilda goes: 'Fujika, girl, after you left', I had just come back from the toilet, 'Alfredo, who is with Alan Machado, was undressing you with his eyes. Go back there, because when you left he went right after you' When I looked at him, he was to die for! We started dating in secret. It went like that for 3 months. After a while, on March 15th, he suggested he moved in with me. I kicked the other one out, and that was it. On March 15, 1975. I'll never forget it. That was when we started living together. He introduced me to his father. I would attend the family meetings. His father loved me, he'd say 'I'd rather have him be with you than with other certain types of girls' Alfredo was engaged to some girl before me. His father really liked me, Mr. Belmiro. We would talk on the phone every day. I would call him from Paris, Switzerland, every day. Sometimes twice a day. His passing was very painful to me. -How did he die? -Heart disease. Right next to me. In his sleep. He didn't even have time to say anything. I wake up, Sonia Dutra was here. I call him, but it's still very early, I get up, make coffee, and go 'Wow, Alfredo, you've slept so much, that's wonderful.' So I open the window, and say: 'How wonderful, you've slept so much!' 'Let's get up, I made the coffee, do you want me to bring it to you?' And he keeps quiet. I say 'Come on, get up and go get the bread and the newspaper. Come on, Alfredo'. And he is like this, turned to the other side. So I look closer and notice he hasn't moved, so I'm like 'My God'. I touch him and he's chilly, so I call Marise and say 'I think he's sick' and Marise goes 'Jeez, Fujika, I think Alfredinho is dead'. She would only call him Alfredinho. It was horrible. I would cry all the time. But as time goes by... Do you miss him a lot? I do. I do miss him. Sometimes I feel his presence. Sometimes I'm here and I feel his presence. Check out how beautiful. And then it plays another record. If you come back, don't make a fuss. Just take care of yourself. Put our house back together, it is nothing without you. Water the plants on the balcony, they should tell you That I've died every year, while I waited for you. If you come back, do not reproach me. I could not handle it. It reminds me so much of him. I know nothing about abandonment, I ran away to find you. That's beautiful, girl. Clean up all the window panes, they should show you The path to the horizon, where I will find you It's beautiful, "Abandono". Roberto Carlos recorded it, and then she did. Clean up all the window panes, they should show you The path to the horizon, where I will to find you Marvelous. Divine, isn't it? Guys, get out of the way. So let's do it. The orchestra has always been here and there was a catwalk in which we performed the coreographies. -There was a catwalk. -Yes, there was. There was a hole in it and a blind queer used to fall into that hole. It was a samba performance. We've planted our seeds here. I'm feeling vulnerable today. Also a little melancholic, since everything is about to end. I don't know if it's the energy we spent all these days, but we start to feel a little empty. And now we have to start it back up, you get me? If I sing "My Way" tonight, I'll cry like a baby. It's true. Today I'd cry. Because I feel like crying. I'm feeling very sensitive. You already got that... Yeah. I don't want it. 'I can't do it by myself'. 'I can't do it by myself. Break a leg! When I was one-month old, a play written by my mother was on stage. The actress had a health issue and she rushed to fill her in. I was a baby and went to the theater every night on her arms. I stayed backstage with the dresser when she went onstage. They even made me a mini-vedette outfit. At the end of the play, my mother took me onstage. This is where I debuted, on the same stage where now the divas recount their backgrounds and are immortalized. I'm looking back And I can see My whole life And I know I am at peace Because I have lived My Way I have grown Without waste And managed to embrace The entire world And more Much more than this I've lived my way I have known pain And I have been Compensated I have moved on Without staggering I managed to embrace All disappointments My plan Has never failed And it had shown me Thousands of angles And more Much more than this I've lived my way I have loved And suffered And have shared Long paths I have moved on Without staggering I managed to embrace All disappointments My plan Has never failed And has shown me Thousands of angles And more Much more than this I've lived my way They can talk about it Or complain about it I have /earned To let it go If I have to die And go through life I have left nothing behind Without devoting myself to it Every day Of my life I, Val?ria... have always lived My... Way I live by myself with my mother in an old apartment. Rue Sarazate. And to keep me company, I've got a turtle, two canaries and a cat. In order to allow my mother to rest, I always get the groceries and cook. I rinse, I tidy, I dry, and occasionally I sew a dress. On a sweing machine, Augusto. The work doesn't frighten me. I'm a bit decorator, a bit stylist. However, I practice my real occupation at night, as transvestite. I am an artist though. Nobody has the right, in fact, to blame or judge me. And I need to have nature as the only responsible for me being a homosexual, like right now you think I am.