Transcript for Gabby Giffords Won't Back Down (2022) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- So many people hurt. A lot of people died. Always connected to them. Grateful to survive. I'm alive. And she was lying in the grass And she could hear the highway breathing And she could see a nearby factory She's making sure she is not dreaming See the lights of a neighbor's house Now she's starting to rise... This 30-year-old has accomplished a lot of things in a short amount of time: college, graduate school, a number of years owning and operating El Campo Tires here in town. I'm Gabrielle Giffords. Race into El Campo Tire and Service Center today before this offer's gone. And now this ambitious woman is working at the state capitol as one of Arizona's youngest lawmakers. I'm running for Congress because, frankly, I believe that our country is going in the wrong direction. There's a lot of bickering, and we're not getting the job done. And that's why I think the change can't wait. I'm a third-generation southern Arizonan, and if there's one thing I know is the people of this state are sick and tired of the partisanship, and they want a representative that is going to reach across the aisle and get the job done. There is no turning it around at this point. You won. This is a victory for all of us tonight. Not just the Democrats but the Independents, the Republicans, the Greens, the Libertarians, and the vegetarians. I want to thank each and every one of you. - We're sending a message to - a change can't wait. Joining us now is Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat, Arizona. During your campaign, some of your photos and everything showed your fiancé, Mark Kelly, who is who? Um, he's an astronaut. Representative Gabrielle Giffords is surely the only lawmaker whose email box is filled with love notes from space. Morning, it's a really good morning in space. I'd like to thank my wonderful wife, Gabrielle. I rise today to make clear the immediate need for a comprehensive immigration reform package. I rise today to express a strong support for the College Student Relief Act. I rise today to pay tribute to the women who have served our country with honor and distinction. Gabby was a star. She might decide to run for Senate. She might decide to run for governor. She might decide to run for president someday. Gabby? Sweetie. Can you take my ring off? Are you able to do that? This is your room. You got the date on the wall. "Thursday, January 27th. "Memorial Hermann TIRR, Houston, Texas." Let me come around here. Can you give me a thumbs-up? Can you give a thumbs-up to the camera? Now the very latest on the recovery of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords. She's beginning several months of rehab less than three weeks after being shot in the brain. Congresswoman Giffords was the target of the mass shooting outside a Tucson supermarket. Congresswoman Giffords was flown from Tucson to Houston to start the next phase of her recovery. Of course, we're all praying for the congresswoman. Can you smile, sweetie? Oh, that's not... That wasn't a smile. That's better. That is better. Gabby, big thumbs-up. How about two fingers? All right. Give me five. I'm extremely hopeful that Gabby's gonna make a full recovery. I've told her that. She's a strong person, a fighter. I mean, she is a fighter like nobody else that I know. DR.Gabby's alert, awake. She's moving her lips. Whether she's gonna try to mouth words or not, we're gonna have to wait a little longer to see. She had a bullet wound that entered the left side of her brain from the front toward the back. By looking at where the bullet enters the skull, goes through the brain, and exits, you can definitely project the deficits that will occur. Expressive language is mostly centered right here in the back part of what we call our frontal lobe. In Gabby's case, that area is completely damaged. It was completely unknown whether she'd be able to speak again or not. Take a look here, so you can see what this... What your little boo-boo looks like here. I thought, at some point, whether it was a year or 10 years later, Gabby was gonna want to see what she went through. So I got a friend of mine to pick up a camera and a tripod, and we just started filming. Some of this stuff is gonna seem kind of silly, Gabby. But I want to see if you can do these things for me. So you pick. Do you want the... red one or the pink one? You pick. Typically, with an injury to the brain with a gunshot wound, survival is not likely. It's less than 10% that they would even survive. You try it. Gabby was... significantly impaired. So here's a Kleenex. I want you to blow it to move the Kleenex. Okay? You try. I want you to pucker your lips. Can you make it move? You're talking to somebody on the phone. They're not gonna be able to hear you if you just say... So you have to turn your voice on and tell them, "Ah." Let me hear it. Okay, open your mouth. Is that hard, Gabby? Is that hard for you to do? We'll get there. Gabby suffered from aphasia, which is a language impairment. So, difficulty comprehending language and expressing language. Happy birthday to you Happy birthday, happy birthday Happy birthday to... And at one point, we were in her hospital room, and she suddenly realized the significance of her situation. And it was like a panic attack, like, just crying uncontrollably and just scared. Like, just terrified. I mean, speaking and communicating with people were, like, everything to her. -Want to try that one? Music for Gabby was a great way to tap into language. It's not just in that left hemisphere like the language primarily is. Music is in different areas of the brain across both hemispheres. So when there's been damage to the language center, there are still music centers within the brain that are still preserved. The jazz version. Gabby is a very musically-inclined person. She has a history of singing and being in shows. Thrilling combination Playing the French horn... Forget the rest So we used music therapy. So an update for you now on Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords' recovery. Her husband, Mark Kelly, did send us a tweet, quote, "Today was a huge day for GG. Lots of progress!" My name is Gabby My name is Gabby Perfect. Good morning, Gabby Gabby, how do you do? Just like that. Well, good morning Gabby. Gabby, how do you do? Well, she's feeling -Bad. -Bad. Gabby had a great sense of humor. You could just really sense that her personality... I knew her personality was still there. How are you? -Chicken. -One of the things that Gabby really struggled with with her aphasia was perseverations. How are you? -Chicken. -Gabby. Chicken. Try not to say "chicken," okay? -Chicken. -A perseveration is when somebody gets stuck on a word. You perseverate on it. How are you? -Chicken. -Mm-mm. We have no idea where "chicken" came from. Set the... Chicken. Gabby said "chicken" a lot. Chicken. Chicken. -Okay, watch me. -Yes. -Set the... -Like berry chicken. -...table. -Like berry chicken. -Okay, set the table. -Like... -Set the table. -Uh... Table. That's right. Good job. -So what do you call this? -Yes. -The... -Table. That's right. Good job. Answer the... Uh... Giffords? Yes. You are not allowed to quit on me. -Gabby? Ready? Chicken, chicken, chicken. -Answer the... -Chicken. -Hey. Answer the... -Yes. -Phone. -Excellent. -Yeah, it's Mark's birthday. -Yes. -So, let's practice that one. -Yes. Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you Happy birthday, dear -Chicken. You better not say that on his birthday. -Baseball... -Baseball... -Hack. -Is it a hack? -Yes. -Or a hat? -Yes. Okay, let's try it again. Frustration is a normal part of the grieving process when you've had an injury like this. Gabby, are you frustrated? Can I tell you something? It is gonna get better. Okay? It's frustrating right now, but it is gonna get better. You have come a long way in five weeks. I wanted to cry with her. I wanted to cry for her. Here you go. But I also knew that's not what she needed from me. Do you need a hug? She needed me to be strong for her. -Hmm? You want a hug? Come here. Gabby, you're doing amazing, okay? I know it's frustrating. I know it's frustrating, but are you gonna get through it? -Yes. -Yes. -Say it like a congresswoman. -Yes. Are you gonna get through it? -Yes. -Yes. The dream for Gabby at that time was to go back to Congress. Gabby! Gabby! This district is over 9,000 square miles. We have over 345 precincts. And I'm just excited to have the support that I have. I've seen many people run for office locally and nationally. I've never seen anybody quite like her. Our office manager came up with the best description. She said, "When you meet her, you get Gabbified." And it's so true. Hey, how are you? JAMES E. My campaign people told me that she had a chance at winning the seat that we had failed to win before. And I went out to Tucson and I spent time with her, campaigned with her. She was someone with whom I felt almost an immediate kindred spirit. She had a way of putting everybody at ease. She was pretty much a centrist. That's what you had to be to succeed in this part of the state. If an idea is a good idea, it's a good idea. Doesn't matter whether or not it's a Republican idea or a Democrat idea. By stressing her commitment to border security in this Arizona border district, she's undercutting the appeal of her Republican opponents. But she also had progressive policies. She was pro-choice, for example. She believes so strongly that people in this country ought to have health care as a right, not a privilege. ...health care, the most costly economic challenge confronting our families. Although politics weren't as divided then as they are now, they were still pretty divided. And so whenever you saw someone who could bridge the partisan gap and speak to people in a way that felt authentic, that was something that was really prized. -All right, ready? -Yeah. You know it's a badass stick shift, right? A young person with some great ideas, with a huge heart. Gabrielle Giffords has never forgotten who she works for. My job's to help people right here. We all believed that the next step for Gabby was to run for Senate. I'm Gabrielle Giffords, and I approve this message. In fact, the schedule was, the day after the shooting, that she and I were flying back to Washington to start planning out her next move. She had the energy and ambition, I think, to have gone really far in politics. One, two, three, up. -Up. -Perfect. DR.Gabby was partially paralyzed on her right side. She might be able to walk again. Go. Go. Good. DR. But it was very unlikely that she was going to be able to have significant use of her right arm. Ah, there it is. There it is. There it is. Hold it. Hold it. Oh, girls, they wanna have fun Oh, girls just wanna have fun They wanna have fun I remember each morning walking into the hospital and being so excited to go up to Gabby's room. 'Cause I felt like each day, I knew there would be something new that she would be able to do. January, February, March... ...April, May, June, July... Can you take your glasses off, and we'll get your helmet? No. She had to wear a helmet when she moved around, which she did not like. Boo, boo, boo. We can't take that risk. That helmet was the substitute for her skull to protect her brain. When she first had her injury, she had some of her skull removed to help release the pressure as the brain swells. Gabby's injury was beyond what most of us can imagine. And spouses and families all can respond in different ways. On a bright and sunny day -On the back of a crocodile Our family's approach was to be with Gabby in the hospital as much as possible. "I'll ride him down the Nile" Gabby's mom and dad came to Houston, moved into a friend's house. Her mom was able to be in the hospital every single day. At the end of the ride, the lady was inside The smile was on the crocodile -Whoa. All right. -Good job! This is a good time for... Maybe we'll bring this in. This is a break. Oh, my goodness. Mark was always the one advocating not only for her medical care, but for her emotional needs as well. -Wow. He hung signs on the door about kind of the rules that he expected. That's your favorite flower. -Yes. -Stuff like, "Don't cry. Be positive." They're not roses. They're... Tupilucks. -Tulips. -Tulips. -Yes. -Yes. Don't assume that she doesn't understand what you're talking about, because she probably does. -You tell Mark, "I..." -Love you. -Mm-hmm. -Yes. Gabby had no memory of what happened to her. She didn't know she was shot in the head. I had some advice from her doctors not to give her specifics until she asks. There was a point in the hospital, I remember, where she said, "What is happening to me?" What she really wanted to know was more details about what happened on the day she was injured. Hi, this is your congresswoman, Gabrielle Giffords, inviting you to a one-on-one meeting. I am hosting Congress on Your Corner this Saturday at the Safeway located at North Oracle. Congress on Your Corner was an effective way to meet with constituents. We did 21 Congress on Your Corner events, the last one being on January 8, 2011. I'll be there with my staff from- 00 to- 30 a.m. to meet with you in person and answer any of your questions about what's going on in Congress. It was my first week as an intern for Gabby, and I was asked, "Can you come in on Saturday to help out with an event?" I got a robocall on Friday afternoon. "Come to the Safeway "and tell me how government can work better for you." I called my girlfriend and said, "Does anybody in your house want to come with me?" Everybody was busy but Christina. Christina-Taylor was nine years old. She was smart as a whip. She was on the student council. Again, this is Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, and I hope to meet with you in person this Saturday. So the two of us got in the car and drove over. I actually went to the wrong Safeway. So by the time I got there, the setup was all done. First person I see is Gabe Zimmerman, who's our boss at the intern program. And Gabe just smiles at me, and he's like, "Next time, try and be on time." Gabe was my go-to guy for just about everything. Young man, 30 years old, just engaged. We got in line, and we were talking about government. We counted the 435 representatives, and I said, "Christina-Taylor, "you're going to meet one of them." And then Gabby got out of the car. She was in a great mood. She was excited to see people, to hear from them. 'Cause Gabby often said that the term "representative" is a job description, meaning that you have to hear from people that you represent if you're gonna represent them. We started Congress on Your Corner promptly at00, took our positions. I looked to the left, and I saw Judge John Roll. He stepped into the area where we were standing. And it wasn't two seconds later that the shooting started. I was holding Christina's hand and looking at Gabby standing in front of the American flag and the Arizona state flag. And she just slid. The shooter turned the gun on me and Judge Roll, and it was this pop, pop, pop, pop sound. I went down. John went down. Gabby was already down on the ground. Then I saw the blood pooling up. 911, where's your emergency? - It's Giffords. - Hello? Hello? 911, there was a shooting at Safeway. Okay, what do you mean? Where Gabrielle Giffords was. And I do believe Gabrielle Giffords was hit. -Oh, my God, my God. I could see the gunmen still shooting into the people who are up against the wall and lined up. Looked like the guy had a semiautomatic pistol, and he went in, he just started firing, and then he ran. The next thing that I remember is Gabe Zimmerman falling between myself and Gabby at our feet. And his face was turned towards me. And I could see he was dead. I have a person shot here. I get to the front of the line, and I see Ron Barber, and I see that he has at least one injury in his leg and then another one somewhere on his face. And he says, "Don't worry about me. "Go help Gabby." How many people? We have about a total of 10 people, maybe more. Oh, my God. Gabby was hunched over on the ground, and I could only find one injury, and that was a gunshot wound to her head. I get behind her, and I hug her up against my body to stabilize her and to use my hand to try and stop any blood loss. I remember saying, "I've been shot," and lying on the ground, holding Christina's hand, and... Then I heard the sirens. This was a horrific scene. Several of the victims had multiple gunshot wounds. There was rounds that were traveling at a high speed that were going through not only the victims' bodies, but they were going into the building itself and striking against the back of the building. And I said, "Gabby, I'm gonna try and call Mark." And she squeezed my hand when I mentioned Mark. And I said, "Let me see what I can do "to make sure that Mark knows that you've been hurt." My phone rings, and it's Gabby's Chief of Staff, who says to me, "Mark, I don't know how to tell you this, "but Gabby has been shot." The first thing that went through my head is, "I'm sure she's all right. "She was probably shot in the arm, right?" And then I thought to myself, "Did that really just happen? "Did I, like, really get that phone call?" I called her back, and I said, "Tell me that again?" And that's when she told me Gabby was not shot in the arm. She was shot in the head. All right, here's what we know. A shooting has taken place in Tucson, Arizona, at a grocery store. It was an event in which Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords was taking part. Eyewitnesses say that she was shot, as were a number of other people, perhaps up to a dozen people or more, according... My dad came into my room and told my little sister and me that Gabby was shot. I remember thinking that that was it. And just, like, an overwhelming, like, wave of guilt, really. I didn't have a close relationship with Gabby. I remember being little and not being very excited that she was coming to visit, knowing that it was gonna be a different version of spending time with my dad. He noticed that we would refer to her as "her" in the room and not just, like, Gabby or just address her there. We are waiting for the police information officer... I lived in Texas close to the Johnson Space Center. Obviously, I had to get to Tucson in a hurry. I, you know, had a friend who could fly us there. My mom went with us, my kids... We do not know her condition right now. We do not have the conditions of any of those... We just kept watching the news over and over again. You do see what appear to be bodies on the ground. Correct. We get about halfway to Tucson, and that's when news stations, you know, pronounced Gabby dead. NPR is now reporting that Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords is, in fact, dead. One very reliable source on Capitol Hill confirming that Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords has died. That was the first time I saw my dad break down ever. To me, it felt like the world was gonna end. ...knew and loved Gabrielle... I was... like, devastated and shocked. And I remember getting up out of my seat and going into the bathroom. It's just a tremendous loss for the nation and for our community. Just a surreal 30 minutes. And then they came back and said, "Well, no, she's actually not." I can tell you right now that Gabrielle Giffords is currently in surgery. You say that she is alive and has gone into surgery? Six others, including a federal judge and a nine-year-old girl, died in the attack. A dozen people were injured. As he tried to reload, authorities say the suspect was tackled by two men while 61-year-old Patricia Maisch made another critical move. I was able to reach the magazine that he had pulled out of his pocket. 22-year-old Jared Lee Loughner is in custody. She went from trauma surgery to brain surgery. When I went into the ICU room for the first time, she was pretty much unrecognizable. And she was unconscious, obviously. The trauma surgeon said she's gonna survive. But beyond that, they couldn't give us any assurances. In theory, she could have been in a coma forever. I have come here tonight as an American who, like all Americans, kneels to pray with you today and will stand by you tomorrow. I have just come from the University Medical Center, where our friend Gabby courageously fights to recover even as we speak. Gabby, we see you're trying to open your eyes. Can you open your eyes, sweetie? We're right here. When we heard that Gabby had been shot, we were heartbroken and scared. I already knew Gabby well, knew Mark. And when I visited with Gabby, she was out and uncommunicative. And I want to tell you... A few minutes after we left her room and some of her colleagues from Congress were in the room, Gabby opened her eyes for the first time. Gabby opened her eyes for the first time. - Oh, my goodness! - Yes! -Move your thumbs up. -Yes! - Thumbs up, come on. - Thumbs up. Even in the darkest, most difficult times, there's always that glimmer of hope that we can cling to. We cannot and will not be passive in the face of such violence. We should be willing to challenge old assumptions in order to lessen the prospects of such violence in the future. There are almost no countries outside of war zones that have the kind of armaments in the hands of civilians that you see in America. There is a cultural attachment to the idea of guns and firearms as being wrapped up in freedom. But partly, frankly, you have a cynical combination of gun and armaments manufacturers and an NRA that has successfully mobilized at a grassroots level and is able to stoke fear. I want to be clear. That tragedy in Tucson was a terrible crime. And my heart, and I know yours does too, goes out to all the victims and their loved ones. But it's time for some frank talk. The media and the political elites want us to believe that if we just pass another law or two, we can stop a madman bent on violence. When they tell you that a government ban on certain firearms or magazines will somehow make you safer, don't you buy it, not for one second. I want you to try to scream it out. Say, "Now I'm free!" We want to hear your voice. Now I'm free Free falling When Gabby was in the hospital, I would have this recurring dream of things being back to normal. Hi, honey, it's me. I'm on a bike ride right now. Having a great time. It's a beautiful day. It's a little bit chilly, but not too cold. And I'm wishing that you were here with me. Look at them. It's like her injury never happened. Did you see that? Two coyotes. Awesome. It was, like, one of those great dreams. It was like, this is... This is awesome. You know, this is now past us, and things are back to normal. But then you wake up. When will they make a decision on your flight, sir? I was the commander of the final flight of space shuttle Endeavour at the time, and we were just a few months away from launching. I had been working at that point for probably about 13, 14 years as an astronaut. Commander Mark Kelly seconds away now from the small firing of the reaction control system jets. Gabby knew the risk involved. I mean, she was there for me for three of my spaceflights. We would talk about the odds. Turns out, she had the risky job. At a NASA briefing this afternoon, shuttle commander Mark Kelly is expected to announce that he will go ahead and command the shuttle Endeavour when it launches. Gabby's improving much quicker than the doctors expected. One of her doctors the other day said, "This is a one percentile kind of improvement." So, I started to think about the mission, and I ultimately made the decision that I would like to return and command STS-134. Ground Control to Major Tom Ground Control to Major Tom Right there. Take your protein pills and put your helmet on... Forward and up... I would go to work all day. I'd come back and spend the evening at the hospital. Commencing countdown, engines on Check ignition and may God's love be with you... The Space Shuttle Endeavour should dock with the International Space Station Wednesday morning. This is its final mission. I was rendezvousing with the Space Station. It's a very complicated procedure. And doing all this while Gabby's getting brain surgery. DR. She needed a cranioplasty, and that's replacing the part of the skull that was removed. Gabby was also developing a serious condition called hydrocephalus that could hamper her recovery. So, we needed to do the surgery while Mark was up in space. She was literally going to be in the operating room while we were docking with the International Space Station. COT-OCT, I have you loud and clear. Good morning, boss. The whole thing was a big exercise in compartmentalization. That whole procedure on the day you're going to dock lasts for hours. So, I just have to, at least for this period of time, forget about the surgery. DR.We had a special type of CT scan that gives information about the shape of Gabby's skull. And then the prosthetic is made to fit it perfectly. I am manually trying to fly these two vehicles, eventually within two inches of each other when they're both going 17,500 miles an hour. DR.We have a large part of the skull exposed. We can see the curvature. If you're not focused, if you skip something, you screw something up, the problems you could induce are not easily recoverable. DR. That prosthetic has to fit like a hand in glove. Houston and Station, capture Is confirmed. Docking went off without a hitch. On the Space Station, we have what's called an Internet protocol phone, and I had the neurosurgeon's cell phone number, so, I called him. I told him that the surgery went well, and that he didn't need to worry. Hello from the International Space Station. I'm looking forward to coming home. Tell my wife I love her very much. She knows. Houston, Endeavor, runway's in sight. Make your touchdown. Shuttle commander Mark Kelly led its 25th and final flight. Okay, it'll be a little bit more. Here it comes. Ta-da! Here it comes. -Wow! -There she is! -DR.Wow! -That looks great. Look at you! That does look awesome. Wow! DR.Oh, your head looks so good. Beautiful. DR.It does. It looks perfect, huh? Perfect. Yeah, that's... Astronaut Mark Kelly says he is retiring from NASA to take care of his wife, Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords. Good stuff. I made a decision that that was time for me to retire from the Navy and to leave NASA. Good news about Congresswoman Gabby Giffords. She was discharged today from the Houston hospital where she's been undergoing rehab. - Taking some naps. Good. - Sit on the couch. -Watch Washington. -Ah. -Keep up with what's going on. -Yes. Yes. -In Washington. -Yes. Gabby was still in Congress. Her staff was in communication with her, and we would talk about things, and she would kind of give her approval. So, she was still pretty much directing traffic at that time with us. Now for more on our top story, the long-awaited vote to raise the debt ceiling. Gabby Giffords, making her way back to the Capitol to vote in favor of the debt deal. She made the decision to travel to D.C. to vote on the bill that would raise the debt ceiling. Question is, will the House suspend the rules and pass the bill as amended? It was a critical vote. I mean, you're talking about the ability of our country to pay its bills. I was standing in the back of the chamber. I can still see her very laboriously going to vote. It was a very, very emotional moment. It was like she parted the waters, and I think the entire congressional community was behind her. Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, her presence brings honor to this chamber. Thank you, Gabby. January of 2012, a year after the shooting, Gabby called us all together, her senior staff from Tucson and from D.C. And it was obvious that a big decision had to be made. My recommendation was Gabby stay in office for the rest of the year. She said, "You know, the people who elected me "need someone who can give them 100%." Action. Gotta step down. The people, Arizona. Step down, people, Arizona. Right now. I have work to do. Work to do. Work to do. Work to do. Work... Step down. Step, the Congress, this year. The USS Gabby Giffords. -The ship. -The ship named after you. - Stealthy. - Tough. It's very stealthy. Stealthy, awesome. Yep. Gabby's helmet. The helmet that she had to wear because they took off part of her skull. And this is the piece of skull that was removed from the side of her head when she was shot right here. So, this is the model that they built the plate out of. That look about right? And then, the real skull... This stays... this stays in here next to the empanadas... ...and the sliced mango. "Don't touch." It says, "Do not discard. Not trash." And then this is what remains Gabby's skull. You know, when she was in the hospital, I just happened to ask the doctor what they were going to do with it. And he says, "Well, what do you want to do with it?" I said, "I asked Gabby, and she said, 'Keep it.'" "Keep it." I mean, that's part of your head. -But I think the... -Sera, sera. Good way to put it. What's the rest of that song? -"Whatever will be, will be"? -...will be. Good night. When I was just a little girl I asked my mother, "What will I be?" My dream for Gabby was that she'd be independent. I remember when she rode a horse... When they fall off, they make them get back on the horse, and finish the course. Que sera sera Whatever will be will be... She has a sister, Melissa, who was just hell on wheels. And Gabby was always standing back to see if Melissa -got in trouble. -Yes. You liked being a little goody -two-shoes all the time. -Yes. Yeah, yes. She went to Scripps which is a woman's college. It's an honor to be asked here back to Scripps today. This college where I learned so much about myself and life in the world. She decided to go to Cornell for graduate school. I think she did that on purpose to get away from her parents. I was offered a high-paying job in New York City. It was a top accounting firm. It was the beginning of a grand and glittering adventure in the big city. But then an unexpected phone call came from my father. He needed me to come home to help him manage my family's tire and automotive company. Hi, I'm Gabrielle Giffords. For 50 years, El Campo Tire has meant reliable service and great value. El Campo Tires. You came home to run the shop. Yep. We weren't making any money. And what did you do? Sold it. Big money. -I know. -Yes, big money. Boom. Boom. But, you know, I ended up running for office in 2000, not because I ever wanted to be a politician. Frankly, I just got sick and tired of opening up the newspaper on a daily basis and seeing our great state being ranked 48th, 50th, in teen dropout, teen pregnancy, mental health funding. I just felt that I had to try to do something. She had been a registered Republican for a long time. She reregistered before deciding to run for the Arizona House in 2000. I don't think anyone anticipated... She was a pro-business Democrat. Education obviously costs us money, but ignorance costs us more money. She never took very many radical stands. She was never anti-gun. Gabby owned guns. Gabby was kind of like a bit of the it-girl in Tucson. Everybody knew Gabby. I mean... She grew up there, and she was so successful. She was in the Arizona legislature. Then she was in Congress. She was the first Jewish congresswoman from Arizona. And then she met an astronaut. Well, we're here today with the Kelly brothers. Scott Kelly, the commander of the International Space Station for Expedition 26. Mark Kelly, Endeavor's commander for the STS-134 mission. You know, a lot of times, people would ask, "So, what's it like to be a twin?" And the response I would usually give is, "Well, what's it like not to be a twin?" We were kind of pretty wild. Pretty much every day, we would get into fistfights. You know, some of these fights would last hours and hours. Because we were so evenly matched. Yeah. We grew up in New Jersey. My parents were police officers. I initially was trained in the Navy in Corpus Christi, Texas, and I was deployed aboard the aircraft carrier USS Midway. GEORGE H. W. Just two hours ago, Allied air forces began an attack on military targets in Iraq and Kuwait. I flew 39 combat missions over Iraq and Kuwait. Had a couple surface-to-air missiles shot at me. Mark and Scott Kelly were selected by NASA to be test pilots. We both applied to the astronaut program, and were fortunate enough to be selected to the same class in 1996. Tell me how you two fell in love. - Where did we meet? - Um... Mancouver. Vancouver. On the way to a overseas trip. Gabrielle Giffords, then an Arizona state rep, and astronaut Mark Kelly met in 2003 on a cultural exchange visit. We sat next to each other on the airplane. She laughs at my jokes even when they're bad. -Funny. Funny, funny, funny. That's the one thing I noticed about her. Who was the bigger talker? Gabby Giffords. -Yeah. -Yeah. I would say so. Ying and yang. She brings home this guy that flies around in the sky. He was exactly what she wanted. Where did you want me to propose from? Oh, space. She thought I was gonna propose, like, I was gonna use, this opportunity to do this big thing. But I'm very focused on my job when I'm doing my job. And then what happened? No bueno. Nothing. -Oh, the ring. -Nada. -Tiny ring. -She also didn't like... When I eventually got around to it, she didn't like the... She didn't like the size of the diamond in the ring. When you have aphasia, often you can... You can't say a lot, but when you think of something, it often comes out. Talk about your match made in heaven. Gabrielle Giffords, a U.S. representative living in Tucson, married NASA astronaut Mark Kelly. She stays in Washington during the week, then flies home to Arizona on the weekends. He spends his weeks training in Houston or Florida. Gabby and I had one of those commuter marriages. D.C... Um... Houston, Tucson. -Busy. -Busy. I have two kids from a previous marriage. Gabby wanted to have children. She was almost 41. It's harder the older you get. So, she was going to Bethesda... Yes. For... A baby. -Yeah, for in vitro. -Yeah. The plan was that Gabby would have had the procedure on a Monday, but she was shot on Saturday, two days before. You know, timing is everything, right? Yeah. So... This afternoon, Jared Lee Loughner pleaded guilty to 19 charges in a deal that's expected to let him avoid the death penalty. Loughner is clearly a killer. But the people he hurt are willing to show mercy. We will never forget the horror of that day, the loss and wounding of so many good people. But I decided that adding anger to the burden will do no good. When the prosecutors asked you, did you think they should seek the death penalty? No, no. Loughner, jail, jail, jail, jail, jail. Mentally ill, mental ill. I'm in a terrible place. This is the school that I go to. with schizophrenia. This is my genocide school. He had gone to Pima Community College, but had been expelled because of odd behavior. Outbursts in the middle of his classes. He just seemed to have some really odd ideas about government. They're controlling the grammar. They control the grammar. The college said, you know, "You can't come back "unless you get mental health help." And he didn't get that help. His parents had locked their gun in the trunk of the car. But later, he passed an FBI background check, and he legally bought a semiautomatic gun. Unless you've been hospitalized, you're not gonna show up in a background check. SGT.Earlier the day of the shooting, he had gone to a local Walmart, and he had attempted to purchase 9-milimeter ammunition. The clerk felt that he was erratic, and his behavior was strange to him, and so he lied to Mr. Loughner and told him, "No, we don't have anything to sell to you." But he was able to go to another store, and pick up eight boxes of 9-millimeter ammunition. They did find a safe in his bedroom afterwards that showed he was a bit obsessed with Gabby. His target without a question was Gabrielle Giffords. He went there to kill her. Mark Kelly and his wife, Gabrielle Giffords, confronted her would-be assassin in the Tucson courtroom for Loughner's sentencing. The actual sentence: Life without the possibility of parole. Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, her husband, Mark Kelly, came up to the podium, both of them looking Jared Loughner directly in the eye. Kelly said, "You may have put a bullet through her head, "but you have not put a dent in her spirit." I wanted to get a message across to him that he was not gonna silence her. I wanted to make it clear to him that he was not successful, that he failed. That was important to me. Finally, Kelly just said, "Gabby and I are now done thinking about you." Home, home on the range Where the deer and the antelope play Throughout her recovery, Gabby has been able to sing the lyrics of songs much more fluently than when she attempts more spontaneous speech. And that's very common in aphasia. I started working with Gabby in 2013. Gabby sat down across from me and took my hand, and we have spent many hours doing therapy since then. Hello. Hello. How is the temperature up there? Um... We always start out with conversation. A little bit of rain, maybe rain, maybe not, hazy. Oh, yeah, do you think that's from the fire? Florida. Oh, fire... California. Yeah. Yeah. How was your morning? Um, I have some... Maybe ear infection or sinus infection. A doctor. I know. I'll try... I'll call... No! Now. -I will, you're right. -Now. -Yeah. Gabby's intellectual abilities are as good as ever. But because of the injury to her brain, because of the aphasia, her ability to take what she's thinking... I rode in my... To get that into the words she wants to say when she is speaking or writing, that is her biggest struggle. "Alex and I rode..." No. A lot of homework. Every day, I push myself. Take a moment and visualize the action. With aphasia, it's still really hard, right? You want to get to a word, still often really difficult. Question two. "What's it like to know what you want to say, "and not be able to find the words?" No bueno. We do prepare for some interviews in advance so that they feel comfortable. -Comfortable. -Mm-hmm. Gabby, what is it like to know what you want to say, but you're not able to find the words? No bueno. Aphasia really sucks. The words are there in my brain. I just can't get them out. I love to talk. I'm Gabby, and I'm so quiet now. -Easy-peasy today. -Lot of... Yeah. There was a lot of practice that went into that. -The brain! -I know. Who knew? Who knew? We made a decision to write a memoir about what happened to Gabby. This is Chapter 15. "Gabby was in..." This is where we left off. "Gabby was motionless in her bed, nonresponsive," just kinda like you are right now. Unresponsive. I'm just kidding. "I had never before attended funerals "like the ones in that second week of January 2011. "Christina-Taylor Green's funeral was the hardest. "For a nine-year-old girl to die "because she was passionate about democracy, "it was just so unfair. "When I returned to the hospital that day, "there was no way to tell Gabby "where I'd just been. "I just sat with her, holding her hand in mine." Mm. Aww. We are now getting numbers quoting law enforcement sources as saying at least 20 or perhaps closer to 30 individuals, many of them children, have been killed at an elementary school in Connecticut. They wouldn't even let us in the building. All these parents were waiting for their children to come out. They thought that they were, you know, still alive. The governor actually said to the parents, "Anyone who hasn't been reunited "with your children, "you will not be." The majority of those who died today were children. Beautiful little kids between the ages of five and ten years old. The National Rifle Association, the NRA, is the most powerful grassroots lobbying organization in this country, has been silent, they said today, out of respect for the victims. Gabrielle Giffords was in Newtown, Connecticut, this weekend, where a gunman killed 26 people at an elementary school. Sandy Hook. We visited the parents. Parents. Hugs, hugs, hugs. A lot of hugs, a lot of hugs. One week after the mass shooting at Sandy Hook, the NRA finally breaks its silence. I call on Congress today to act immediately to appropriate whatever is necessary to put armed police officers in every single school in this nation. The only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. Breaking news in this hour on gun control. Senators Joe Manchin and Pat Toomey moments ago, unveiling a much-awaited bipartisan deal on background checks. It appears to be the best hope yet for getting any action on gun control in the wake of the Newtown massacre. A closing of the gun show loophole. Folks who wanted to buy a firearm would have to go through a background check. I don't consider criminal background checks to be gun control. I think it's just common sense. We are optimistic that this will pass. It's gonna take a little work, and that's why Gabby and I are here. Mothers and fathers of Sandy Hook victims met with some senators who agree with them and some who don't. In some cases, the president has used them as props. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you give in this matter will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? Our first witness is Mark Kelly. He's a retired astronaut and U.S. Navy captain. Please go ahead, sir. As you know, our family has been immeasurably affected by gun violence. Gabby's gift for speech is a distant memory. She struggles to walk, and she is partially blind. I think there are really some very effective things that we can do. And one is, Senator, the background check. Let's make it difficult for the criminals, the terrorists, and the mentally ill to get a gun. Our next witness is Wayne LaPierre, the executive vice president and CEO of the National Rifle Association. Law-abiding gun owners will not accept blame for the acts of violent or deranged criminals. The problem with gun laws is, criminals don't cooperate with them. The mentally ill don't cooperate with them. You've got to put... police officers in schools, armed security in schools. We have a former member of Congress here, Gabby Giffords, who's gonna give a brief message. Ms. Giffords. Use your finger. Thank you for inviting me here today. Speaking is difficult. But I need to say something important. Violence is a big problem. Too many children are dying. Too many children. We must do something. It will be hard. But the time is now. Be bold. Be courageous. Americans are counting on you. Thank you. Great job. Nobody could have been more compelling than Gabby was that day. That legislation was always difficult. But I thought a classroom full of six-year-olds getting slaughtered, surely, that will prompt a change. The bipartisan compromise to expand background checks on guns just failed to break a Republican filibuster. The vote was 54 to 46. So, six votes short of the 60 needed to break that filibuster. A few months ago, in response to too many tragedies, this country took up the cause of protecting more of our people from gun violence. A few minutes ago, a minority in the United States Senate decided it wasn't worth it. When the legislation failed, that was as angry and as disappointed in our government and in Congress as I have ever been. I've heard folks say that having the families of victims lobby for this legislation was somehow misplaced. A prop, somebody called them. Are they serious? Do we really think that thousands of families whose lives have been shattered by gun violence don't have a right to weigh in on this issue? Tucson was the first mass shooting during my presidency. A gunman appeared at the front of one of the theaters... And, sadly, it is then repeated... One or more suspects walked into a social services complex... ...over and over. The gunman entering the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church... And over and over and over again. One of the biggest mass shootings in American history at the Pulse nightclub. In 2013, I started an organization to make our country safer. We knew that progress in Congress and in the White House -was gonna be difficult. -Difficult. But that we had this opportunity in states across the country. Gabby's set forth a strategy to reach out to folks who weren't previously part of the gun violence prevention movement who may be gun owners themselves... I'll call in your background check now, and we'll hope he passes. ...but are committed to stopping gun violence in this country. -Hello, Nevada. -Hello, Cincinnati. She's traveled from coast to coast, going to states that were too long ignored, you know... -Minnesota. -Yeah. -Colorado, Texas... -Yes. Starting chapters of Gun Owners for Safety, which is Gabby's rival organization to the NRA. Please support background checks. These are people who identify as gun owners. And I am a bona fide NRA lifetime member, and I've put my comments on the paper. It's titled "Guns, a National Emergency." This is the new face of the gun-safety movement, one that Gabby Giffords is uniquely able to bring to the fold. When NRA officials talk about gun violence, they say the way to stop a bad guy with a gun, is a good guy with a gun. Oh. Um... This, um... Safeway store. There was a good guy with a gun... Yes. ...at the Safeway store where Gabby was shot. Right there in front of the Cadillac is where everything went down. An innocent bystander who was legally armed with a pistol ran to the scene. His safety was off, and he was poised to fire. Trouble is, he almost shot the wrong man. As I approached the people wrestling with him, one of the gentlemen actually had gotten the gun away from him and I kind of assumed he was the shooter. This good guy with a gun almost opened fire, which would have been a tragedy on top of a tragedy. These shootings oftentimes happen so quickly. It is unrealistic to think that somebody, no matter how well trained, could actually prevent something like this from happening. You look at Gabby Giffords. Not only is she a survivor of gun violence, she's a gun owner herself. -She was right-handed. -Okay. Now she's left-handed. I'm from the Wild, Wild West. You've got some cool stuff. I'm not against guns. I own guns. I'm against gun violence. When Mark Kelly came to Arizona and married Gabby Giffords, I don't think he ever intended to run for office. Once Gabby was shot, I think that changed him. Mark decided, if he's gonna make a difference, he has to be in the arena. So he said, "Well, if she can't be a voice "for Arizona in Congress, maybe I can." Breaking campaign news. Retired astronaut Mark Kelly just announced that he is running for John McCain's Senate seat in Arizona. I did not like the trajectory of our country. I didn't like where we were going. And, you know, you can sit around and complain about it, or you could try to do something about it. Gabby was a public servant. I learned a lot from her about how to enact policies to improve people's lives. And so many different issues we care about. Yeah. Global warming. We care about global warming, healthcare. Healthcare. Gabby was in the hospital for six months. -Yes. -And without... excellent healthcare... -Yes. -...in Gabby's case, provided by the United States government as a member of Congress, I don't know what we would have done. Yes, yes. Gabby, what's a campaign like? So exciting! A lot of this stuff, especially campaigning, comes much easier to her. Here, try it like... -Boom. -Like that. I don't think Mark came to politics naturally. I mean, this is a guy who was an astronaut. You know, you go up into space, and you learn how to fix things, and you learn how to work with other people in space. But that's not politics. The world will... And with your hands, you know, probably stand a little more straight, yeah. Okay. Gabby gave Mark credibility. I mean, she had already made her bones in Arizona. She had proven herself. This is a wildlife refuge. And here's Mark, he's coming from somewhere else. "Why should we support him? "Oh, Gabby thinks he's okay. Gabby trusts him." The best time to hunt is December to April. Okay. I don't think he wants to make gun legislation his central issue. That doesn't work in Arizona. This campaign was so important. I wanted to add my voice. On this continent... Mark's team had wanted to put together an ad. We really sat down and worked line by line. Okay, let's pull this up. Campaign ads are hard. I wanted to nail it. So here's your first line. "Marriage are commitment." -"Marriage is a commitment." -...is... commitment. Mar... It takes a lot of work. There's a number of different strategies that we try. So close your eyes for a minute, and I want you to picture, um, however you want to think about marriage. Marriage. "Marriage is a commitment. "Marriage is a commitment. "Marriage is a commitment." Try it with me. -"Marriage is... -"Marriage is "a commitment." Beautiful. "Marriage is a commitment... "to stand with your partner... "to stand with your partner "through good times and bad." Nice! "Damn thor... sorpedoes." "Damn the sorpedo..." No. "Damn the..." -"Damn the..." -"Damn the torpedoes..." Now tuck in the "so." -"So damn..." -"So damn the torpedoes." -No! -How is it going? -"Full speed ahead." You have no idea what that took. -It's hard. -It's really hard. I know. Well, let's take a little break from torpedoes. What's a good oldie we can pull up? Okay, um... -Airplane. -Airplane. ...letter Damn the torpedoes. Damn the torpedoes. Damn the torpedoes. Full speed ahead. Broke another mirror. -Oh, larger. -Bigger? -Bigger. -You got it. - Texas hair. - Texas hair. He has helped me... No. He has helped me through my darkest moments. Mark knows when it's time to serve... served his family... Remember, "serve," no "D." -No "D." -No "D." Try "serve." Served his family... Served is... - Oh, no. - No, Gabby. No, no, no. -You are killing it. -Don't get despondent. And serve his state, the great state, Arizona. -No. -No. -What was wrong with it? No. You didn't like something? Marriage is a commitment... -Good morning. -Hello, hello. ...to stand with your partner in sickness and in health. Certainly, having any commercials with her on there, it reminded people, "This is Gabby Giffords' husband. "This is the man who stood by her side. "This is the man who held her hand "at University Medical Center." Mark knows when it's time to serve, serve his family, serve our country, and serve the great state of Arizona. So damn the torpedoes. Full speed ahead. I'm Mark Kelly, and I approve this message. All right. -You got your speech? -Yes. All right. -Thank you, everybody. Can you guys hear us in the back? You guys have now done this on Gabby's campaigns and Mark's campaigns. Is there one that's more stressful than the other? -Mark. Perhaps, it might be a little more stressful. Good evening, and welcome to this special election 2020 debate between U.S. Senate candidates Republican Senator Martha McSally and Democratic challenger Mark Kelly. The stakes in a U.S. Senate race, the control of the United States Senate often hinges on one or two seats. This is a critical moment for our country and our state. What I've been doing is fighting for Arizonans. Senator McSally voted for a $1.9 trillion tax giveaway to big corporations and the wealthiest Americans. My opponent will enable the radical left and their agenda to be forced on us. He led, over the last decade, one of the most radical political organizations in modern history. For the people who are watching at home and don't know what group you're talking about, can you please be specific? It's a very radical political organization. The organization that Senator McSally is referring to is named after my wife, Gabby, Gabby Giffords. It's named Giffords. My wonderful wife, Gabby Giffords. Gabby! Gabby! Gabby! Gabby! Gabby! Gabby! This election is so important. Lowering drug prices. Raising the middle-class wages. This is the most consequential election -of any of our lifetimes. I like your space suit. You ever get the opportunity to go in a rocket ship, I highly recommend it. And to see our planet as this big, round ball just floating there in the blackness of space, you get this strong sense how we are all in this together. Hello, my fellow Arizonans! -Whoo! Her charisma still comes shining through. We need bold solutions, courageous ideas, leaders who put people first, not politics. The personality that Gabbifies everybody is still there. I know the perfect person, the job. He's tough. He's smart. He works just as hard as I do. Well, almost. My partner, my rock, Mark Kelly. Thanks, Gabby, for that kind introduction. None of this is possible without your inspiration and your support. Decision 2020 and the race to the finish line. You guys vote yet? All eyes are on battleground Arizona. The winner could determine which party controls the U.S. Senate. Effectively a stalemate, 47 seats for Democrats, 47 seats for Republicans, six races to be decided. Still a lot of votes to be counted. Getting some new information on the balance of power in the U.S. Senate. CNN can project that Mark Kelly, husband of former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, will be the next senator from Arizona. Roman cavalry choirs are singing Be my mirror, my sword and shield My missionaries in a foreign field... He figured out how to do it. He actually outpolled Biden in Arizona. He found that sweet spot in the middle. All right, Gabby, what are we doing here today? -Speeches. -I'm practicing... -Maiden speeches. -Yes. Practicing my maiden speech. Not many people in this job, their spouse realizes the challenge of doing the job. I've never done this. Oh, straighten out. So you want me to stand up straight. Wave your hand. -Oh. Like this? -Yes. -Like I'm at a concert? -No, no, no. -Wave. Hand. -Use my hands, all right. Madam President, it's an honor to rise today to deliver my maiden speech. Calm down. We can't just rebuild our economy the way it was. We have to reinvent it and create good-paying jobs that you can actually raise a family on. It's a long to-do list, but I'm used to those. -Oh, posture. -The open hand. Straight ahead. Horseback riding. It's a long to-do list, but I'm used to those. Slow down. The checklist for flying the space shuttle stands about six feet tall. The Senate, though, is not NASA. -Arizonans sent me here... -Slow down. But Arizonans sent me here to talk really slowly because that's what Gabby Giffords wants. There's a lot going on in Washington. I'm part of this group of 11 Democrats and 11 Republicans that are trying to get this infrastructure bill across the finish line. Breaking news right now on Capitol Hill, where the Senate just passed the $1 trillion infrastructure bill with strong bipartisan support. If Gabby hadn't been injured, she would've run for that Senate seat. Feels like, you know, I'm taking over for her and her job, to some extent. Music? -'80s -'80s on 8. One... Two... I have climbed highest mountains I have run Through the fields Only to be with you Only to be with you -Got it? -Yeah. But I still haven't found What I'm looking for But I still haven't found What I'm looking for Let's go. ...won't back down But I won't back down You can stand me up at the gates of hell But I won't back down Well, I won't back down Can't beat me, even with a motor. You can stand me up at the gates of hell But I... -Smoking you. Gabby knows the devastation that gun violence has wrought on communities across the country. She is so critical to this fight for gun safety. What are you hoping to achieve with gun-safety legislation? Background check now. Exactly. 90% of Americans support universal background checks. It is my great privilege to be joined by former U.S. Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, the cofounder of one of the most prominent gun-safety organizations in the United States. Stopping gun violence takes courage, the courage to do what's right, the courage to be responsible. On this vote, the yeas are 219, and the nays are 210. The bill is passed. The U.S. House of Representatives approved a pair of gun-control bills that would close a long-standing loophole in gun laws by expanding background checks to those purchasing weapons over the Internet, at gun shows, and through private transactions, and give authorities 10 business days for federal background checks before a gun sale can be licensed. Yes. But the legislation will face a tougher battle in the U.S. Senate. It will be you, Senator Murphy, -Robin, and Lauren. -Lauren. - Hello, hello. - How are you? Gabby, you remember Lauren. Lauren. You last saw Lauren, she had a baby. -Oh, the baby! -Yeah. Oh! Oh! -Chunky baby! -I know. Thank you for being here and doing this. It's such a critical time. Yes, yes. How do you feel about our chances? -Yes, yes. Yes. -Good? Every Republican I talk to mentions how the NRA is in retreat. And are in bankruptcy. The financial future of the National Rifle Association may be decided in a Texas bankruptcy court. More than half a million dollars on private flights for LaPierre, and he often made use of a vendor's yacht. In court this week, LaPierre said his use of NRA funds was necessary. The boat, the Bahamas, no bueno. So in some way, -this is the perfect time... -Yeah. ...to try to get this measure passed. There's a lot of senators who haven't had to cast a vote on this issue for five or... -Toomey? -Toomey is... I think wants to be in the right place here. I know it's been a long, hard haul, right? How many years, Gabby, have we been doing this together with Senator Murphy? Sandy Hook. It feels like it was... Decades. Yeah. I think about those kids in Sandy Hook. They'd be in high school right now. Tens of thousands of flowers blanket the National Mall in Washington this week. 40,000 white roses, each flower represents a life lost to gun violence every year in the United States. The installation was built by a gun violence prevention organization that is run by former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords. It's so good to see you. Thank you. -Thank you. -And look at this. I would like for every member of Congress to come out here and take a look at every flower that represents someone's loved one. And I would ask the people who don't get it yet, which flower representing a mother, a father, a son, a daughter, a child, a sibling... Which one of these flowers is not worth members of Congress doing something about it? Hello, Clyburn. - Good to see you. - Mwah! Thank you. - Hello. - Hey. Hello. - Hey. - Jim, hey, man. I've been trying hard to figure out what kind of a stranglehold that the gun culture has over the Congress. The NRA has been able to raise the money, and they have spent it very strategically, and I applaud Gabby for getting out there and fighting fire with fire. I've known the darkest of days. Days of pain and uncertain recovery. Gabby speaks with a kind of authority that nobody else can speak with. Her experiences give her the credibility. We are at a crossroads. We can be on the right side of history. Please join us in this fight. My dad died in 2013. My mom lives outside Tucson, deep in the desert. Gabby. -Mother's Day! -You look so Southwestern. -Western? -Look at that. -I love you. -Oh! I love... "M" is for the million things she gave me "O" means that she's only growing old "T" are for the tears she shed to save me "H" is for her heart as pure as gold -As gold, as gold -Gold, gold Hello, hello. -Hello, hello. -Hey, Gabby. -Hello. -How are you? -Oh, my gosh. -What? You have a Gabby kiss on your hair. A perfect smooch. -Oh. Oh! Aww. I love you. Claire and I have a much different relationship with Gabby now. Definitely, it's a much warmer and special relationship than before. I wrote Gabby a letter the night Gabby was shot. I kind of wanted to express the things that I recognized and appreciated about how supportive that she'd always been of my sister and I, and that I was sorry for not being as warm or as accepting as I could have been. It was like an awakening for me. -Baby Sage. -Who's this? -Baby Sage. -It's Gaga. Oh! Wow! Wow! -Hello. -Who's that? Our relationship, it's different than before and different than a relationship with anybody else in my life. Oh! It's a very unique way of communicating with facial expression and a lot of touch. You know, Gabby's able to communicate with her face and her love. It's a gift. We turn to gun-control legislation. Gun legislation to increase background checks is not moving. There are some senators trying to get bipartisan support for gun legislation. That is not going anywhere. It is difficult to bring Democrats and Republicans together behind anything these days. Fifty-fifty. Yeah, it's a evenly divided Washington. We continue to have Republican support both in the House and in the Senate. The problem is, you know, we need 60 votes, and we're still working on our path to get there. Gabby has built a movement, one that now outspends the NRA in elections, outlobbies them in Congress, passes more legislation than they do on the state level. We've passed over 400 pieces of legislation that, in various ways, have helped protect states and communities, red flag laws that allow us to keep guns out of the hands of, you know... Mentally ill. Yeah, criminals and others. But we've also had big defeats. We've seen terrible legislation passed that, you know, gives people the ability to carry guns no matter what. The worst. Shooting, shooting, shooting. Enough is enough. Need to please call 911 because there is somebody hurt on the third floor. What's it like when you hear about another shooting and Congress still hasn't taken action? So sad. Straight ahead. Straight ahead. We're gonna keep on fighting. Keep on fighting. Don't remember much. Horrible day, horrible day. So many people hurt. Six wonderful people... died. Always connected to them. She's such a positive person. People don't always know what she's struggling with. There was so much lost that day. The senator from Arizona. Mr. President, it's an honor to rise today to deliver my maiden speech. We can't just rebuild our economy the way it was before. We have to reinvent it and create the jobs of the future. Shoulders... Navy guy. The checklist for flying the space shuttle stands about six feet tall. Bald head. The Senate, though, it's not NASA, - doesn't move as fast... -Pointy ears... Perfect, perfect, perfect. Mwah! My wife, Gabby, taught me a thing or two about how to find common ground. I'm so proud of her. Of her relentless positivity that she brings to her continued rehabilitation. It inspires me each and every day. The same gift of connection and the same indomitable spirit that I saw in her when she was first elected to Congress, that doesn't go away. We are at a crossroads. We can let the shooting continue, or we can act. Gabby embodies this sense of the human spirit being able to overcome just about anything. Thursday, January 27th. Memorial Hermann TIRR, Houston, Texas. How are you? Chicken. Try not to say "chicken." Chicken. It wasn't funny at the time. Kind of, you know... Sad. -Set the... -Table. That's right. Are you gonna get through it? -I mean, do you remember that? -Yes. What do you remember? Say it like a congresswoman. Angie. Gabby, can you reflect on how far you've come since January 2011? I couldn't walk. I couldn't talk. Happy birthday to... Happy birthday, dear Gabby Now, I'm giving speeches again. I'm studying for my bat mitzvah. And I'm riding my bike for 25 miles in El Tour de Tucson. Music? Oh, yes. When you face hard times... How do you move forward? I tell myself, "Move ahead." Oh, the blooms! The blooms. I don't look back. Talking away I don't know what I'm to say I'm stumbling away Oh, trash. Life is okay Say after me It's no better to be safe than sorry Take on me Take on me Words once came easily. Today I struggle to speak. But I've not lost my voice. In a day or two... America needs all of us to speak out even when you have to fight to find the words. Blue Ridge Mountains Shenandoah River Life is old there, older than the trees Younger than the mountains Blowin' like a breeze Country roads, take me home To the place where I belong West Virginia, mountain mama Take me home, country roads I hear her voice in the morning hour She calls me Radio reminds me of my home far away Driving down the road, I get a feeling That I should have been home yesterday Yesterday Country roads, take me home To the place where I belong West Virginia, mountain mama Take me home, country roads Good stuff. Gorgeous. -Nice jump. -Oh, thank you. Good stuff. Good job. Thank you very much.