Transcript for Sleeze Lake: Vanlife at its Lowest and Best (2020) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (film reel rolling) - Holy smoke, the pope smokes dope. (laughs) We got some money from Sleeze Lake, one Sleeze thousand. Come 'n' hum. (laughs) Yeah, it was a gonzo time. I would get in my van and I felt like I was in my own little spaceship. I really did. I still feel it today. I get so excited about truck-ins. I'm like a little kid, except I'm 69 years old. - Yeah, that was the picture in the rear view mirror that I took. When you look out that windshield and you see all those vans in a row and every, I mean that's just like awe-inspiring, to see all those people, to come together and do that. It's just, it's something you'd see in a movie maybe. (slow music) - "2,000 vans expected at Andy's 4th truck-in May 27th through 30th." And you got, "Jail campground owner after weekend truck-in." All right. (slow guitar music) - "The majority of those now attending van-ins and truck-ins, to put it mildly, are not true custom van enthusiasts. They're a group that uses the van as a tool to join others in acting in uncommendable ways." (laughs) I love those uncommendable ways, that's what made truck-ins so much fun. (energetic hard rock music) - [Howard] We had no idea we were to be part of history. It was just, "Let's throw a party." (upbeat music) - [Bill] The best way to put it is, the truck-in at Andy's was, it was a Woodstock of Vannin'. - [Tom] Do you want to. That's really pretty much what it was. The rules were, there are no rules. - [Bill] Sleeze Lake, it was a little community built on a little pond that turned into something that we could've never imagined. (upbeat music) - [Curt] It's like Disney World on acid. (upbeat music) - [George] There's no lifer like a low-lifer. - All right, you guys ready? - [Man Behind Camera] Yup. - Okay. - [Man Behind Camera] I think I am now. - [Man Wearing Hat] One more. There's a bunch in there. - All right, whatever. I'm glad we're recording this. (laughs) Good time to turn the camera on. - This not on, is it? - [Man Behind Camera] Yup. - Okay, good. I'll talk to you later. (both laugh) - I'll walk up to it. - [Man Behind Camera] There you go. - I'm a thespian, it's acting. (laughs) - Yeah, we could do a little background. - [Man Behind Camera] Yeah, let's do that, let's start with the background. - And then you guys can, you guys could cut it up. (slow blues surf rock music begins) - I was single, making good money and living at home with my dad. - I was in the Navy from 1969 to '73. I was a Navy corpsman, medical corpsman. - I was living at home with my parents, working in the steel mill. I had a good job, you know, right out of high school, 18 years old, making big money. - '73 I would be 19. I was working in a gas station, you know, making five bucks an hour. Not as good as Sherman, but, living at home not paying any rent, you know, like the kids do today. (Sherman laughs) - I wanted to get out of the house and really had no job skills, so I joined the Navy. I did two trips through Vietnam on the ship. And at the time, I was known as Burnout, can't understand why. - I had a reputation of being rebellious back in the '60s. I liked to party and stuff. I'd go to school every three days, get kicked out because I didn't have short hair. And I said, "Well, this bullshit." - I had long hair. I liked to smoke dope and drink beer. - In the '70s, I worked in Chicago, and I worked in a sales office. But come the weekends, it was a whole different story. That was when the other side of me came out and I shed the dress, and the pantyhose, and the high heels, and became a fun person. - Yeah, I was the service manager for a Firestone dealer in Lombard. And I actually quit there in May of '74 when he wouldn't give me the extra two days off to go to our first truck-in. So I told him, "Okay, give me a hand loading my toolbox. I'm out of here." - [George] In '72, everybody's getting out of the military. All my age group, all making money. - [Sherman] You get out of high school but you're supposed to be in the working world now and you're supposed to be an adult and stuff but you still haven't really grown up yet. (upbeat music) - My name is Joan Eorgoff. Wild couple of years. I was so sheltered. I realize now, as I'm older, I thought I was so grown up. And I realize now that I really wasn't. I liked music, and to go into bars, and things like that. But I wasn't hip. - [Sherman] You know, you're still 18 and you're working in the steel mill like me or whatever, and you're making more money than you ever dreamed possible at 18 and you're able to go out and buy things like a new van or a motorcycle or snowmobile, what have you, and especially when you're living at home and you don't have rent to pay. - One of my neighbors across the street from the old neighborhood died and I went, and I talked to his wife and she sold me his same-color bronze and white '65 Dodge van. It's got bucket seats and for starters, it had to have bucket seats. And then it had bunk beds built in the back, which was pretty nice. And I'm looking at this thing all the while and I said, "This seems to be the thing I want." (upbeat music) - [Mike] I bought a '69 Ford van from a painting company. - [Tom] I bought a '74 Ford in 1974. - [Howard] I found a van, '64 Chevy van for 400 bucks. - [Sherman] I bought a van immediately in April of '74. Brand new $3,300 right off the showroom floor. - [George] And one day when my girlfriend and I pull up to a light in the neighborhood street and a guy pulls up next to me in a really nice custom mold van and he says, "Hey, you want to join a club?" And he hands me a flyer. And the girl said, "What are you going to do with this?" I said, "Well, I'm going to go out there." "You're going to join a club?" I said, "I dunno what I'm going to do but I'm going to go check it out." (upbeat music) - [Tom] Every time I'd see them on a weekend going by, there were more and more people and more and more vans. - [George] From there, it turned into another 10 vans, then 20 vans, then 30 vans, then 50. - [Tom] And so I said, "This is something I think I could be interested in, once I see what they're about." So I did, I joined the Midwest Vans in '74. - You really couldn't help but become absorbed into the family of the vanners. I got so into it that I left my family, left my husband, and moved to the States, and joined the Midwest chapter. (upbeat music) - [Tom] Some of them, perhaps, we're not the most popular people in school because they were a little different and could think differently, maybe out of the box, compared to what was the routine. And I found it a very eclectic mix of people and I really enjoyed it. And they, a lot of them had similar tastes in music. We loved to drink beer and raise a little hell. They considered us misfits, hooligans, gangsters, whatever, wild men from Chicago. That's how they termed us. That fit what I wanted to do at that point in time. (electric guitar chord ringing) We have buttons that some people have under jackets, or colors, or whatever, that say, "Fuck you, we do what we want." And that's really, after I got out of the service, that's how I felt. - Good evening. I have asked for this radio and television time tonight for the purpose of announcing that we today have concluded an agreement to end the war and bring peace with honor in Vietnam, and in Southeast Asia. - [Curt] In 1968, I looked like that. Looked like a damn taxi cab with the doors open. It was a naive time that was starting to change how you went from one extreme like love, peace and happiness to uh - end the war. And it was a radical change. It was quite a difference than, you know, what you were really hoping for. The friends that I had were definitely against the war. Kent State happened while I was in the service, and that definitely turned a lot of people's back. Everybody thought I was an idiot. You got lumped into a thing where, you know, you're a bad guy now. So, all of a sudden I was not fitting in among any of my friends. (film reel rolling) It was an escape but it was also kind of fitting back in. You know, you'd fallen out of one niche and you had found this new niche with complete strangers. It was a time when I needed to reattach to people. I think the whole turmoil of the '60s and '70s, early '70s, it may have formed us. It may have pushed us together, may have been the glue that we needed to become, you know, the van culture. (slow music) (tractor engine passing by) - [Tom] I'm trying to think of how many vans I've had 'cause I think they're all here except for one. My first was a '74 Ford. It was red, white and blue striped and it was called, The Spirit of America. That was my second van. I bought that. It was sitting in a cornfield in Indiana in 1978. And then the third van I had is that old Dodge just sitting around on the other side of the turkeys' pen here. That's one of George's old vans, I bought that from him 20 years ago, probably. You know it had, the paint was disappearing. For some reason, when you park on the Southside of Chicago, your paint disappears off your vehicles. Couldn't have been anything toxic in the air, I don't know. The fourth van that I have is the red van here, the Lady in Red. That's my fourth van. It's got some different, It's got some things that nobody, I don't think anybody has. If you notice, the door handles are frenched in, even the gas fill is gullwing. (laughs) I seen a lot of changes, a lot of things come and go. The thing that hasn't changed is people's love for these vehicles. It doesn't matter if it's the finest truck in the world or it's got bare-bones floor and you got a big old air mattress in it. This, when I started the club, would not have been something we would've had. We were more about the camaraderie and the brotherhood and sisterhood of vanning than we were about custom vans. It was all about the people that were involved in it. And I'm going to do this until I can't. My goal, currently, is to be a 50-year member of Midwest Vans. I'm close. I'm five years out, so I just got to behave myself, and hang in there, and I can do it. (film reel rolling) - [Howard] The new interstate system, which was only 10 years old at the time, you could travel everywhere. And then we were trying to figure out, through the car magazines, where we could go with our van to be with other van people. - I'm Terry Cook. In 1972, I became the editor of Hot Rod Magazine. (upbeat music) So, as an experiment, I put some vans on the cover of the magazine and we did some articles on vanning and bang! The sales went just wango, they just jumped up like gangbusters. And we said, "Wait a minute. Something's going on here that we weren't really aware of." (upbeat music) And one of the things that I did in that magazine was, when I was the editor, I said, "There needs to be a national truck-in." (upbeat music) - [George] In the summer, the sign comes up, there's going to be a national truck-in in Colorado. - [Sherman] And I'd get off work in the steel mill on a Thursday night or whatever, and George would pick me up at 11 o'clock at night or I'd meet him at his house and we'd hammer down all the way to Colorado. - You can't imagine the stories about driving straight through with a caravan of like, seven, eight vans in our crew at one time. One guy fell asleep at the wheel in a desert and went off into the desert and then came back. (laughs) Woke up and came back. We thought we lost him. - [Sherman] You know, 20-hour ride you know, get there Friday afternoon, jump out of the van. "Woohoo! We're here! Let's party!" You party Friday night, you party Saturday night, and then you turn around and drive home Sunday. You didn't think nothing of driving 1000 miles to just go party for two nights and turn around and come home. - [Ruthann] And it was so amazing to look out that windshield and see nothing but a whole caravan of vans in front of you, look in the rear view mirror, and a whole caravan as far as you could see, behind you. - We'd go in, we'd park generally in a circle with some of our friends. - [Ruthann] I equate it to like circling the wagons. - Have a campfire in the middle. - [Sherman] Open up your cooler and have a few cold ones, and start walking around meeting people. - [Ruthann] You'd drink some beers together, you'd smoke some pot together. - Walk up, "Hi, how you doing. Where are you from? I work from Colorado, I work from Chicago," we start talking. And then we'd go on to the next campsite, and on, and on, and on, and on, down on the road. And that's how we all met people from all over the place. - I suppose what you meet in a bar were probably plastic people. Vanners were more, "This is who I am. I'm not some phony." - I really couldn't believe the scope of it. (upbeat music) I couldn't believe how many people, different walks of life, from all over, that I didn't know and had no exposure to whatsoever. - Back then, I was 20 years old and I'm just like, "Wow, this is the coolest thing." You know? I mean, how cool is this to drive around the country and party with a bunch of people who have your same mentality, you know? - [Ruthann] And it was like nothing I've ever experienced in my life. - It was the freedom to be, from noon Friday till noon Sunday, who you wanted to be. (upbeat rock music) - [Howard] It was all a perfect storm of everything. And we had the vehicle to be in that storm. - From there on, everybody decided we were going to have an event and we decided to have it on Memorial Day weekend the following year. (stairs creaking) - I got a bunch of lights, let me just turn them on. This is a disaster. This is the original club plate, it is. (metal rapping) - [Man Behind Camera] What's the meaning behind your handle, the fast & bulbous? - "A squid eating doe in a polyethylene bag is fast and bulbous. Got me?" It's Captain Beefheart. (laughs) With stuff like this, all day. Had to pack a lunch. There you go. Me and Tom sitting in a chair and this girl's going by with her husband. You didn't even have to ask. - [Man Behind Camera] Was that kind of stuff common back then? - Oh, yeah. - When I got to know Fast & Bulbous George and those guys, it was an amazing slice of me seeing how the other half lived, how the wrong side of the tracks, how they lived. It was amazing when I went back and I got involved with those guys and I met some guys that were professional car thieves. When I stood back and I looked at the comparison of the van culture from the West Coast to the Midwest, it was completely different. Guys on the West Coast were busy polishing their custom paint, so it was exactly the proper shine. And the guys in the Midwest were digging a four-foot-long grave, open grave with a plastic Santa Claus in it with a fence around it, and strange odd things in their campsite that have no, that don't make any sense at all. And for guys that were, who worked all week long at the steel mill or as a pipe fitter, the van was a vehicle that not only transported them out into the country, it transported them away from the lifestyle that they were locked into, where they were restricted. And if you wanted to go out there and skip and go naked, paint yourself purple and blue, you could do that and nobody would, there was no problem with it. And I said, "You have a fantastic opportunity with this little subculture of vanning for you guys to get crazy." And they did. (upbeat rock music) - [Tom] The truck-in in 1975 had a big attendance. We weren't sure how that was going to go. And then the next year was more. (upbeat music) - It was May 1977, Memorial Day weekend. It was at a campground at the time called Andy's Hideaway, which was in Monticello, Indiana. This was a private campground, just outside of town. There was, I think it was 70 acres. It was not very big. - [George] And one of our guys, Joe Luce, he got a hook-up with Andy's. - [Joe] They needed a place for a party and I went out and talked to Andy. "You sure? I ain't never had nothing like that." I said, "Well, I don't know how many vans are going to be here." So, I signed the contract and went from there. - At this campground there's a small, maybe an acre, body of water. - [Mike] All the drainage from all the farm fields went into that lake. - [Howard] We called it a pond, they called it a lake, whatever. - [Mike] Pond, or whatever, cess pool, or whatever the heck it was. - [Sherman] And I think it came about by someone saying it's really sleeze in there. - [Mike] Right. - It started out as like just as kind of a joke and got serious. - Monticello, Indiana is best known for Lake Shaffer and Indiana beach. It's a huge resort destination for families. But the Indiana beach campground didn't want us because they'd had an event earlier that didn't go so well. I had this idea, let's have a truck-in at this imaginary resort. Let's build a town. It was called Sleeze Lake. (upbeat music) - [Bill] Joe brought all this scrap wood. - [Howard] Literally 100 dump trucks full of firewood. - [Joe] I worked in a lumber and they would just throw this wood away. - [Tom] A lot of guys in the club had building skills. So, people took what was there, and brought nails and hammers. - [Sherman] We would go down there every weekend, probably for about a month. - [Mike] A month before, yeah. - [Sherman] constructing Sleeze Lake. - [George] Every chapter built a different building. (upbeat music) (film reel rolling) (upbeat music) - [Howard] We get out to Andy's Hideaway in Monticello on Thursday and we get set up, everything's going fine. Friday, the vans start rolling in, and they keep rolling in, and they keep rolling in. - Vans, just constantly coming through and you'd stand alongside the road, and you'd go, "Look at that one. Oh my god, look at that one." - [Tom] People kept coming. (laughs) I could not believe it. - That was probably when the shit hit the fan, right before dark. (upbeat music) And if you picture this road into the campground, when we looked down that road, - [Curt] I mean, it was a constant line of vans just, it went on forever. - And there were vans on the shoulder and barbecue grills set up, and campfires built in the middle of the road. - [Sherman] I mean, they were getting out of their vans and peeing in people's front lawns and stuff, you know. Nobody could get anywhere. The people who lived out there couldn't even get out of their driveways to leave the house. (upbeat psychedelic rock music) - We had to make room. So they made room for themselves by filling the two fields alongside on either side of the campground. - You know, it's May. May 31st, the end of the month. The fields had just been planted and we were parking trucks on them. - [Sherman] There were people who got in for free because they drove through fields to get there. - There was no organization. This was just park where you can fit. We bought and paid for the corn that never grew. - Yeah, we paid some money. (laughs) (film reel rolling) (light guitar strumming) - [Mike] I was up all night for some reason and I stood on top of my van. It was early, early in the morning and you can see, once you parked, you weren't going anywhere. (slow music) - [Bill] There was more people at that campground than there was in the whole county, okay? They sold out to the liquor stores. You'd go into a grocery store, and there'd be like two loaves of bread. - 6,600 vans, okay? 20,000 people, no cops. - [Tom] You get into the spirit of it, because it wasn't going to go away. They weren't going to back up and go back home, or wherever they came from, you know. - There used to be family-oriented truck-ins and then there was us, Midwest Vans. - Whether it was acid-induced, or tick-induced, or cocaine-induced, or nymphomaniac-induced, or whatever, pretty much anything you could possibly think might happen in a city of 20,000 people, of which 19,600 are high or drunk on something, happened. (upbeat music) - My name's Denis. I'm from Monticello, I grew up in this area. Well, I dunno, I guess it was just kind of a quiet town where everybody, just like us teenagers, we cruised up and down the road. Somebody mentioned that this big event was going on out at Andy's Hideaway, so I said, "Let's go check it out." You know, we're used to just small little gatherings where you might have six or eight or 10 people together, you know, having a little party somewhere, you know, and a few beers but no, this place, it was big, it was as big as a town. Of course, all the adults, they were all complaining because it was this big party out there it was, all it was was sex, drugs and rock and roll, and they made a big mess out there, just what parents and all the adults would be doing about that, like I would now, probably. (laughs) - [Tom] It's going to be like this, you can just have a great time, do what you want. That's really pretty much what it was. - I mean, I was a guy that didn't smoke dope and really wasn't into drugs, and like Alice in Wonderland, I stumbled into a whole nother dimension of, "Hey, you want to smoke some hash?" It was okay to cut loose, that was the deal. Things to smoke, or things to snort, or three-foot-long balloon full of nitrous oxide, little tablets to put on my tongue, lots of fireworks, whoa, wooden dicks, all sorts of stimulants, and things that would be, you wouldn't ordinarily do in public because you would, it would be deemed as being socially unacceptable. - Once you got there, you realized that we were giving you something to do other than sit around a campfire or play volleyball. There's this bar over here we can go to or this thing over here, you know. Something was going on everywhere. (slow music) - [Narrator] We had a casino. - [Narrator] There was a disco. - [Narrator] There was a jail. - [Narrator] And it cost you probably a joint, or a nickel, or something, to get out. - [Narrator] And a church too, yeah. - There was a pubic barber shop. - And then I know on the maze, before you went in, you had to do a half of rush. I dunno if you know what rush is. It's amyl nitrate. Like when you pop them things, when you pass out, that's what it was, yeah. You'd do a hit of that before you went in. You didn't have to but... - Besides walking around, and visiting everybody. We had a hay-rack kind of flat-bed thing and named it the Sleeze Lake Urban Transit, S-L-U-T, SLUT bus. It was towed by a tractor and you could jump on over here and ride around on whatever roads were open through the little campground there. - I think that we had a movie theater too. - Yeah, there were probably some movies shown that we couldn't show anywhere else but... I'm sure it was porno. - I wasn't really into those either. I thought they were kind of lame. Why watch something? Why not just do it? Why do you have to watch it? That to me seemed stupid. - Basically, Sleeze Lake was like, like a frontier town. Just right on the edge of reality. - There was so much stuff going on, it was just unbelievable. You could walk by and this guy would have his great stereo blasting and lights flashing, and next one has a sign that says, thai stick, you know, for sale and this one's got, acid for sale and... - We had a mud monster. (upbeat music) - You know, every town has to have a statue. It was probably 15 feet tall, 20 feet tall, 'cause someone in the club was a dry-waller and got the cement. - [George] We went by on the lake with a floating dock. - [Howard] There was the White Port Emporium and we served glasses of white port wine with dry ice in them so they were bubbling and steaming. - [George] Actually it's called Shake and Bake. It's an old drink from winos drinking... to make your wine taste better. - That was our drink du jour. The wine itself probably got everybody pretty, pretty drunk. But, you know, the dry ice, it would burn your lip or whatever if it touched you, which, who cared then? - [George] And he had a pulley, so he could send white port across to the hotel. - [Mike] The Heartbreak Hotel. You dunno what's going to happen in there. - [Howard] Front porch, no beds, just a facade. - [Sherman] There would be some body painting going on and, you know, just crazy stuff. So there was always something going on up the stage. - Well, I think as the weekend wore on, things were freer. - [Curt] It was all good, clean fun, no matter how dirty you got. - We had a tit contest. (upbeat music) - That was there from the beginning, show us your tits. And then later at the Midwest Vans Ltds, the girls would get up on the microphone and say, "Show us your cock." - [Sherman] Oh, yeah, the guys did it too. - [Tom] Let's just say that the attitudes about public nudity and/or things that involve nudity, um, were pretty open. (upbeat music) - Everyone had CB radios and they all had the long whip antennas. And the thing was, if that whip is going, don't knock on the van door, just stay away. - I've seen some crazy stuff on the roofs of vans, involving nakedness, and group activities, and so on, you know. Is this a family film? Anyway. (laughs) - When you drank a lot, okay, or you just liked to be nude, and there's a place that you can be there where you're not going to go to jail, you know, it's do what you want, just don't hurt anybody. - Why not? We could. There was birth control. There was consenting and willing grownups. - But no one was being held hostage. No one was doing things against their will, whatsoever. It's not like somebody was screaming, "Don't do that, let me go." It was like, "Oh, keep doing that. Oh, baby." (laughs) And, it when on. - I had more to fear from the salesmen in the office than I did from my vanner friends. I felt like they were like my brothers. I was comfortable around them. - There was never a minute from noon Thursday until sunrise Monday that there wasn't something going on. - Things like 10,000 people playing a kazoo, you know? (The Star Spangled Banner playing on kazoos) - [George] The largest kazoo band. - [Tom] We were trying to break the Guinness Book of World Records. - [George] But Guinness wouldn't come out, but we broke the record as our largest kazoo band. - A kazoo turned into a pretty nice pipe if you readjusted it a little bit. (laughs) (The Star Spangled Banner playing on kazoos) - I got a box of shit too, in the house. Oh, truck-in tribunes. Wait a minute, wait a minute, I want... This is club events, leapfrog, and tug of war, and live music, and dance contest. Oh yeah, and a greased-pig contest, greased-pig chase. That didn't, well, it went all right for a while. But then, then they died. Club volleyball tournament. Pardon my mess. Oh, look at that. Look at all the dust. Now that's antique. This is older than me. Man, that's old. I betcha it's backwards. Look at that. Who put this on in... Yeah, we should do a YouTube video of this, huh? This is how you load an eight millimeter. Get some advertising. Get some free money. (laughs) (film reel rolling) This is my, in front of my house before we left. There's the AmphiVan being towed. We found this van, it didn't even have an engine in it. And Juan was actually a used car salesman. All right? So he can get cars anytime. I don't know, it might have been stolen. (laughs) Who knows? - We put a van in the lake, a submersible van. (laughs) Well, we made it one. (water gurgling) - [Narrator] Somebody along the line built a van called the AmphiVan. (upbeat music) - [Tom] We had an AmphiVan. That was a good name for it. - [Sherman] "Let's push this van into the pond. Wouldn't that be cool? And let's film it." (laughs) - [Joe] Oh yeah, they wanted to play Evel Knievel with it. (upbeat music) - It was just (chuckles) we had a body of water and we were going to push a van in there. Somebody probably would really like to have that van right now. - They would take and push it into the lake and it was, they were using it to dive off. (upbeat music) One of the guys in our club, dressed with a diaper, - A cloth diaper and a baby bonnet. - [George] He jumps up on there, runs off and dives off and he dove off the wrong end and broke his neck. - He's okay. He's okay. He's not in a wheelchair, but he still had a head halo on. - That's something that I truly remember. It sticks in your mind when things like that happen. - I just never seen anything like it. And of course didn't, myself and the friends that I was with, we all wanted to have a van after that, you know. I don't know that any of us ever got that done but everybody wanted one. I still would like to, you know. - And it was so cool at the end though. We're all burned out from working our butts off having this biggest truck-in, that I believe, anybody's ever had. - People are packing up and leaving it's pretty much open spaces already, you know, and all of a sudden, - We're like, "Screw this." Somebody lit something and we just burned the place to the ground. (fire crackling) (playful music) - [Howard] I'd say it took us three months, maybe two meetings a month, going down there to build everything. And of course, it took half an hour for the guy who lit it on fire to burn it down. But that actually saved us all the trouble of cleaning up. - [Sherman] It's amazing that nobody got hurt. - If you think about it, that was a good end for Andy's because there's never been one like it since, you know. The Phoenix has not risen out of the ashes to do it again, so to speak. So really, if you think about it, back then it was bad, but you think about it now and it's like, that's a pretty good ending. (slow music) - Sleeze Lake, there was never any police there. I mean, there might have been some on the street because of the traffic but nobody ever came and complained to us about anything. And then when it was all over, they said that they had narcotics officers on the grounds. And they made buys of drugs. - [Sherman] I think his name was Sheriff Fox from the White County Sheriff's Department. He was the guy who was in charge of this whole thing and, all kinds of evidence. - 27 eight by ten color photos with circles and arrows. - [Sherman] Photos of some members in our club, you know, at the time, you know, buying and selling drugs and whatnot and that's pretty much what, you know, they had us over a barrel. - Andy, went to jail, okay? (somber music playing) - And to have it all come down, crumbling down, as far as Carl Anderson was, I believe he had some neighbors that personally he maybe, he didn't get along with and they didn't like all this activity. - To my knowledge, he has never had campers in there again. - That was the end of the, it's the last we've seen Andy. - [Howard] I honestly don't know if anybody has even talked to him since. - [Sherman] We were pretty much politely told to never come back again and if we ever showed our faces there again, we'd be arrested and taken to jail. (wind blowing) (car engine whirring) (birds chirping) - [Howard] This is pretty cool, last time I was at this spot, I was 24 years old. (laughs) Scary. (phone ringing) - [Sherman] (playful) What's up, Joy-see? - [Joyce] (On Phone) Hey, brother. What you doing? - [Sherman] Well, I'm with a bunch of my friends in the van right now and we're going down to Monticello, Indiana to do some filming for a documentary. - [Joyce] Ah, we have many good memories of Monticello although I can't share them over your speaker phone. - [Howard] Well, sure you can. - [Joyce] No, not happening, not happening. - [Sherman] Not happening? You don't want to talk about your drug experiences? - [Joyce] Oh, you know how bad it was. - [Sherman] So yeah, just picture this road for a couple of miles were vans just parked here and everybody just standing outside their doors, drinking beer. - [Howard] Other people set up barbecue grills and the whole deal. Peeing in the cornfields. - [Sherman] Yeah, these fields were just littered with garbage. - [Howard] Well, gentlemen, you are now at the front gate - [Sherman And Howard] of Sleeze Lake. - Oh boy, it's been a long time. - Oh, hello, how are you doing? - [Man Behind Camera] Hey, how are you guys? - [Howard] Hi Andy. - [Andy] Hello there. - [Howard] How you been? - [Andy] All right. - Been a while since we've seen each other. - Yes, it has. 40 years? - [Howard] Yeah. (men conversing) - My name is Carl Anderson. Nickname is Andy, I picked up in high school. Oh, no, no, no, I didn't, (laughs) I didn't know what I was get into. I didn't have no idea. You know, my wife got up to make breakfast and you know what we saw? No. There was a couple in our tulip garden, right in front of our house, making love. (men laughing) - [Joe] That's funny. - Housing nuisance. That was the only charge that they could book me with because I didn't do anything. I had a group of people come in, they had to charge me with something. There were just too many people for the accommodations that I had for them. I was just the bad guy, you know, to have a sexual environment of people that didn't care, you know. After all Monday, there wasn't one person who would wave at me, going to town. They was all so mad that they was out there picking up trash out of their yards, picking up beer cans, I was a no-good S-O-B. - I guess I would have to say, from that point on, you know, it started to decline but, you know, for various reasons. - In 1965, there was no vanning, and in 1985, there was no vanning, even though a lot of vanners will piss and moan about that I'm saying that. I dunno if it will be remembered. It was a very short period of time where it came in, it spiked, and it went away. - If my daughter, (chuckles) who is 31, if she went to one of these things now and did what we did, back in the 70s, I'd be really worried. But I don't think that that could even happen because the climate is different, the society is different, and vanning is different. - That truck-in was really like Woodstock. It was one of those things where everything came together, never done before, and as it turns out, never to be done again. So, Sleeze Lake was kind of a mixed blessing. It was good for our club. It was good for vanning at that point. But it was really the end of an era, even though the era was only five years old. I think the blue collar Vietnam vet group, they had real jobs. They started having wives, and children, and buying houses, and all of a sudden that van out in the driveway was no longer fun, it was kind of in the way, so they kind of drifted away. Well, this should be interesting. (metal rattling) I think I see photo albums. Well, Sleeze Lake was May of '77, I was 24. I was on the road that summer, writing articles for van magazines, so I traveled all year. At the end of the summer, I was running out of truck-ins and the show season hadn't started yet. So I ended up meeting a guy that was managing a van shop in Franklin Park. So I started there right after Thanksgiving in '77 and I stayed there until the spring of 2000 when the owners retired and closed up shop. Working at a van shop where we ate a lot of pizza, and hung out, and had a good time, and took time off to go to truck-ins, and all that, didn't leave me a retirement fund or anything. And obviously, later on in life, it's a little late to start looking for a job with retirement now. So that's a downside. On the other hand, I got to travel. 48 states, the whole of Canada from Vancouver to Halifax, England, France, Belgium, the Bahamas, just all over the place. Got a few Midwest patches on there. I don't think any of us that were around then actually thought we'd be around now. I don't mean physically, I mean driving vans and going to truck-ins. Before I got into vanning, I was never in the quote "In Crowd", or whatever and I probably still am not. So yeah, I suppose I found something I think I'm good at. From being nobody to being, whatever, a published author, and photographer, and, you know, being able to speak to crowds and to finally find something where I could enjoy myself, and have friends and, just be able to see the world. (slow music) We're at the 44th Midwest International Truck-in at Jasper County Fairgrounds in Rensselaer, Indiana. - [Man Behind Camera] So you guys are still doing it after all this time? - Yeah, we figured we might as well have some type of fun. - We couldn't survive physically, many of us would fall over dead if we were still acting like we did then. But those are all life experiences. They make what you are, how you handle it, what you do. - At the time, for me, it was great because I did go beyond my own little world. When I left, I reverted back to being the more shy, don't want to give my opinion, isolated-type person. In today's mind, if I went back to the late '70s, I would do it all again but more. I really would. - Like I said, to be a part of that, it kind of gives you goosebumps, to think about that. You experienced something that many people will never ever experience. - I left the club for about eight years 'cause of, you know, problems in my personal life, you know, marriage and whatnot, things like that. So I had to get away for a while. - After living three years, four years of being Burnout, it was time to settle down and become Curt, and raise a family, and I came back, and it was like I had never missed a day. - I really enjoyed it. That's why I'm back in it now. I'm secretary of the club for the past year. - I've got friends in the van club that now, we're in our 42nd year of friendship. It's hard to get friends that are in your life for that long period of time. Lots of people don't get that experience. A contingent of us, I guess, we're hardcore. We didn't, we just didn't want to fall out of it. We didn't want to stop. We enjoyed it. It's something I could never give up, I don't want to. - We're together because we love vans and we're family. (men conversing) - For some reason, that last truck-in at Andy's, everybody just wanted to go. - [George] Oh, that's the best part. You can always have fun telling people what happened. They can't believe that such a thing even existed. Especially people that are in vanning now. - [Sherman] To this day, almost 40 years later, people still talk about it. How that was their first truck-in. You know, that's what hooked them, coming to Sleeze Lake. - It was a wild and crazy time and it was fun to be part of, it was fun to grow up in that era. I still tell friends about it. Today even, I'll tell people about it. And they're just like, "Wow, you were there." And I say, "Yep." - [Sherman] The only thing you're missing is you weren't there. - [Mike] Right. - (laughs) And it's hard to, it's hard to put it all into words and remember everything that happened way back then, you know. - [Mike] Remember pulling in with the big "Andy's" sign. You know, parking the truck and, "We ain't never get out of here." - [Sherman] Yeah. (slow reminiscent music) - Once a year, we have a major event. They still have the SLUT bus, the Sleeze Lake Urban Transit. - No, I didn't have no problem with the '70s. I didn't have any problem at all with the 70s. I consider Howard a friend of mine, and the rest of them too. I wish them all the luck with their ventures and, keep on partying. - I find Midwest vans to be the most colorful, most creative, most plentiful, most fun bunch of guys, probably, that I ever met in my life. - We weren't trying to set any milestones or anything and to be A, the largest event ever held, or one of them and then for it to be an iconic event in whatever weird history we have, it's pretty amazing. ♪ Everyone knows I'm a kid ♪ ♪ The bones in my brain break ♪ - And as we got older, the attitude check was still correct and that was, fuck you, we do what we want. ♪ After I clean up my mess ♪ ♪ I'll slowly dress ♪ ♪ I'll slowly walk ♪ ♪ In the town ♪ (upbeat music) - We all kind of sat there and looked at one another. What the hell happened here? Why is the community so upset? All the business people made tons of money. - About two years later, I get a phone call from the mayor of Monticello. "George, we'd like to get your club to come on down and host your event again." - [Man Behind Camera] Why do you think they wanted you guys back? - 'Cause you couldn't buy a loaf of bread in Monticello on Memorial Day morning. We cleaned that city out. They never were so happy, except for one guy named Fox. - It's always rumbled about, you know, 'cause it was one of these moments. But the funny thing about truck-ins is they all melt into this one big truck-in. When the older guys are talking about a truck-in, then they start looking at their jackets to see which year that was. But I think it's been like a 40-year Sleeze Lake after that. You know, 'cause it's just, you're always rolling into that one huge one. - Man, I don't know if I should have talked about smoking dope but... - Ralph Award was a button with a picture of a guy throwing up on it and whenever you threw up you got the Ralph Award. - We ain't leavin' till we're heavin'. - They would take like a plastic bag and they would pour all the liquid alcohol in the bag we'd bet they had regardless of what kind, whether it was wine, or beer, or whiskey, or whatever it was. What can I tell you, I had a thing for tacos? Yeah, well, that was pretty much true though, as far as musically back then. You know, we weren't listening to Joni Mitchell and Crosby, Stills & Nash and Bob Dylan, you know, we weren't listening to that stuff. - You'd have somebody strumming a acoustic guitar, heavy metal, acid rock. - Everybody's van is like a piece of them. This is my idea, and I'm going to build this, and I'm going to paint this. It was just their own little piece of art that you could drive down the road. - At that time, I had a van called, Vanereal Disease. Not venereal, but vanereal. Then on the front of the hood, I had a hypodermic needle coming down into the mountains, with many vans dropping out of the point and stuff. - And it was, I won a door prize, and it was a vibrator. I thought, I didn't know what it was. (laughs) I had to show it to Howard and say, "What is this?" (laughs) So that's a little rowdy, (laughs) just giving that as a door prize at a van meeting. (film reel rolling) (slow music fading) (electric guitar chord playing)