Transcript for The Death Triangle (1999) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- YEAR 1917 God, measure our rightful place on earth lovers of people, don't worry, this earth will not be a pit for me or will you still brighten the day my wicked soul... Here, the pit stands before me, illuminate my eyes so that I don't fall asleep in death! Illuminate my mind, steel my will, cleanse my body and sanctify my soul! Amen! We called you to carry our flags across the borders where our brothers are waiting for you with a heart full of hope. Throughout the ages, an entire nation will bless you and glorify you. THE TRIANGLE OF DEATH On the 27th of August 1916, in Wien, Romania's declaration of war was presented in which the right of the Romanian people to fight for the liberation of the historical provinces is released held by force within the Habsburg monarchy and to ensure their union with the motherland. ♪ Burn your fire, war, ♪ ♪ You took my flowers from the valley ♪ ♪ and the most beautiful flames ♪ ♪ It's like I see them coming ♪ ♪ out of the village ♪ ♪ When they took the good day ♪ ♪ From pear-shaped hair, ♪ ♪ From cousins ​​and cousins, ♪ ♪ From the feather hat, ♪ ♪ From father, from mother... ♪ The intervention of the German troops changed the fate of the battles. After the defeats in Transylvania and Dobrogea, the Romanian army is forced to retreat. On the 5th of December 1916, Bucharest falls and more than 70 percent of the country's territory is occupied by the enemy. Although defeated and disorganised, the spring of 1917 finds the Romanian army prepared for a new confrontation. We will not be able to win as long as the power is on one side, alien to the interests of stupidity and on the other side is the crowd, the indifference to everything... Of course, apart from their own pains. Stop it! Soldier, come here. Are you deaf? What's your name? I'm not, but I didn't know who you were talking to. Do you see anyone else around? It's just me with myself, I realise. I mean, I'm talking to myself! No. If you know me, it means that I am. There is no other way! You're drunk as a... Don't say "pig". Pigs don't get drunk! Don't you know how to sit up straight? Know! But I can't. what are you doing soldier The earth is moving and I can't stop it. It's bad, man, it's bad. You call me "man"? Yes, you. Thank you. Good thing you don't believe me...bull! He calls me Gheorghe. Vasile, Dumitru, Lisandru. The world calls me Ion Gheorghe Purice, but you can call me Ionel or Ghita. Gheorghe Purice. Have you heard of General Averescu? But I'm a bit confused, I don't remember. But have you heard of soldier Gheorghe Purice? Yes. I am. Soldier Gheorghe Purice... Call me Ghita. What should the Romanian soldier look like? The Romanian soldier must look like the Romanian peasant when they wake up. Are you awake now? I am, I don't sleep. Only I'm talking to a man who thinks he's a general. You are drunk badly, Mai Ghita. I might look a bit cloudy, but I have reasons. This time I forgive you. You know why? Because that's what you want. Not. Because last year, in Flanders, you saved my life. All the flower of the Romanian cavalry fell in Flanders. Because of a general. And do you think he was guilty? I don't know. The role of generals is to send the world to death. Do you have children, do you have a wife? I have two children, but I don't have a wife! Let her go! Ma Ghita, I think I got really drunk, father... what is it? To live! Mr. General, I can't pass the self-sanitary test and I have to take Ecaterina Teodoroiu urgently to the hospital in Iasi! Bring her to me in the car. Come on, come on! Stretcher, bring the stretcher! Does it hurt? Now it's much better. They gave me a morphine injection. Take a shower. It suits you well. She's good! French cognac. Isn't it hard for you on the front, alone, as a girl? I'm used to it. I'm fine. But aren't you afraid of death? Not of death, but of the fear of death. The greatest pain in the face of death is... I think that you are leaving without being able to take yourself with you. I never thought about it. If you ever need anything, look for me without hesitation. I have some gloves. They are too small. They are new. Do you want them? Thanks. Why are you looking at me like that? I wanted to see... What exactly? If you have cotton wool in your ears. Is that what they say about me? You have a certain sparkle in your eyes, Catalina. Is that a compliment, General? They say that all the soldiers are in love with you. Yes? They didn't tell me. And if they do it when we're all angels, it's too late. Mr. General.. Give me another shower.. Don't forget me, Mr. General. Thanks. Hello. Where can I find Mr. General Crainiceanu? It's urgent. It's here, Captain. But please wait. He is with his son. May I smoke? Sure. Welcome. Some of your friends think that the Romanian people don't deserve them, that's how big they are. Some imbeciles. They can throw the country into trouble at any time. You're thinking of Colonel Sturza, right? If you thought about him, I probably thought about him too. Know that it is a chosen mind, father. A big heart... Please, that's my impression! Do you want me to unfriend him? Your job. But I wouldn't want to see you die in his place. He is a righteous man, father, who hates the hypocrisy of politicians, and even of some officers. May be. I also studied in France, father. You don't trust me either? Sometimes I don't. And whoever thinks too much is a coward. Father... I don't think that a troubled country like ours can become heroic only pushed by big words. Son, I expect great things from you. At our last meeting, you told me that weeds can't stand each other. Was it a metaphor? To assume that I am king over a gathering of traitors and incompetents? I didn't say that, Sire. The French and the Russians say it. But you thought. Why are you defending them? And God loves people... many of whom are villains. He loves them because they are His work. God is an artist, Sire. And what am I? A German who was not born Romanian and will never be Romanian? Every man has the right to be proud of the history of his nation. Do you look at me like a wandering king without a country? For three years we have not built anything Romanian in this country? Sure. We are still digging graves in the ground. For these words I should arrest you. Well, I will decorate you for honesty. The country is degraded by the Russians and the French, Your Majesty. Averescu told me that Romania is the target of a plot. Forces from the east and the west want to erase us from the map of Europe. I will need you, prince. For special merits, Prince Sturza is awarded the Order of the Star of Romania! I serve the Fatherland! Congratulations! Prince, congratulations! Your Majesty, it is a great joy. Congratulations, prince! Know that I am happy for the prince. It's worth it, isn't it? You will receive many congratulations, prince! I have enough friends, General. I'm glad you'll be a nuisance to them. Today you have a terrible sense of humour! Besides, you never valued me! I had no reason. You always suspected me. I didn't know where to get hold of you. You are slippery. Like a snake! Besides, it is no longer important. As of today, I took command of your division and moved you to the 1st Army. Ha, ha.. I think things are rushing. The fact that Averescu took the command of the division that I just received it is a sign that obliges me to take immediate action. I understand that you will receive a new order. Reorganisation of a division beyond the Prut, on the territory of Russia, never.. If here the Russians behave as we know, what will happen when we are on their territory? We will be treated as their prisoners. I think that going by the side of the Germans, I mean the Central Powers we can run to Bessarabia and get rid of the Russians. For now, I don't see another solution. And what do we do with the commitments made to France and England? What do we do with our honour? My dear, I told you before. I put patriotism above honour. Our interest is against the Germans, against Russia. I will follow you, prince. Probably also a good part of my regiment. What about the others? I tried to attract General Eremia Grigorescu. He replied that only a madman could think of such a thing. So? For now we are alone. If my plan will be approved by Germany and you will follow me, then we are sure that this will be the signal. Do you have doubts? There are some problems of conscience, but don't worry, prince. I will follow you. I will follow you from the deepest conviction. I suffered enough humiliations for the right I assumed to think and say what I think. Do you know where we are going? Today he executes it, poor thing. Who? On second lieutenant Ciulei, that tall and thin one. I heard the colonel say that he is guilty. They put the withdrawal order on him. He had a record of keeping people in place. And is this so serious? If they say so, so be it. Only I think he saved people's lives. Which ones? Your boss and mine, who thunder and lightning as he cuts off his head.. Do not speak unfairly, he is a good man. The devil is evil. And what, does he have a family? Who? Mr. Second Lieutenant. Yes. Cica has six brothers and all of them are at the front. I also have six brothers and they are all at the front. I have the honour to greet you, Colonel. I was waiting for you. I thought something had happened... You thought I could change my mind? The road is to blame. Decision. In the name of the law and of his Majesty the King, The court martial of the second army declared second lieutenant Grigore Ciulei guilty of high treason. Consequently, the Martial Court, applying articles 232 and 210 of the military justice code sentenced him to death and military degradation. His Majesty the King rejected the request for pardon. Left-around! may your sins be forgiven in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, amen! Cry. The mouth! Be strong, sir! I need determined people. This will not age me. What's wrong with him? He just saved my life. Shooting position taken! Load! Aim! Fire! Captain Polihroniadi, weren't you kicked out of the army? Yes, at the beginning of the war. I suppose out of envy of some of your military qualities, right? You defended Ciulei to Colonel Sturza because he did not want to fight on the Momaia hill, ordering the retreat.. How did you know if you weren't there? Are you a star reader? No. I wanted to give Colonel Sturza the opportunity to find an atonement for General Averescu. You are cynical, Polichroniadi! Sin is as hard as pride. I wanted to be full of glory. I'm going to pee. I said I'm going to pee. Polichroniadi, did you fight with Ciulei two days before? A simple joke. Lying. He kicked your ass. He made you mean. Yes.. How did Ciulei know that you are a villain? Ticalosia, like the plague, is a kind of embodiment of death. He saw me as a scoundrel. Go and piss yourself. I passed. Did you know it can be shot? Mr. Lieutenant Colonel, you are taking me for a ride. I mean, I didn't understand... as a sign of my patriotism I wanted to witness the execution of Ciulei because he offended me and kicked my ass? Did you hear that, Colonel? Polychroniadi, go and relieve yourself. I'm going. What a shame.. It is.. but sometimes his clumsiness can be useful. Ionic! Yes, Ionica! may they be well too.. I kiss everyone's hand...soldier... Well, Ionica, don't you hear? Yes, Ionica, you see the prince is leaving. Grab your gear and go. I just wrote a letter to the teacher... Okay, come on, let's go! "Teacher, I'm fine and I've arrived at the front..." I am the order of Prince Colonel Sturza, commander of the 8th division. Come on, come on! I feel very proud and accompany him everywhere. I saw His Majesty the King and Queen Maria. I was a few steps away from their lordships. DI colonel is a great man and he treats me well How are mum and dad doing? Please respectfully tell them that I am fine, which is what I wish for them as well. Come on! Immediate! Sandul, put it in the courier, please. Yes Yes. My dear, I'll see you on the 29th of January next to that rock, 100 metres away in the forest. Between 10 to 10:30. Don't worry, prince. I'll be there. Lieutenant Bogdan, 7th mixed brigade. We were informed that you wanted to see the field. Thanks dear, I remember you. We are ready to accompany you. I want to be accompanied only by my people. Please, let's not risk being noticed. It's OK. You can stay here. I understand. Halt! Who are you? Thrush is my name. what are you doing you idiot! Drop the gun! Everything is arranged! Ionele! Why? Idiot! Prince, welcome, Marshal von Mackensen awaits you. Lieutenant Erwin Rommel. Prince, allow me to lead you to Marshal von Mackensen. At your disposal, Lieutenant. May I smoke? Smoking in the car is prohibited here. It is as clear as possible that you do not agree with me. I want to tell you that I belong to a noble family that once ruled this country. I'm German and I went to officer school like you, in Germany. The motive of my action is not material interest but from mental disturbance and conviction. I'd rather lose the war with Germany than win it with Russia. I know something about your family, Colonel. That my father was prime minister and that one evening he asked to be taken to the Metropolis, thinking it was Easter. Perhaps the church decorated with candles and icons was a premonition of Paradise. In my father's head, yes! He was taken to Wien and the doctor would have said "Blessed is the country led by a madman" The problem with me is entirely different, Mr. Lieutenant... Friedsen. As soldiers, we fight in actions that are not always fair. For a civilian or a politician everything is possible. But as a military man, when you do a political action and it doesn't work out there is only one solution. Can I help you with something? Take care, baby. Where would it have fallen? A Romanian colonel shot him when he fled to the Germans. Who ran away? A colonel. How, God? He was the orderly. Or so it seems. I mean, they were. He is the first to fall. God forgive him. Oh God, don't leave us! Don't leave us alone in this endless night which death threw upon us. The angel walked among the stars the nights are empty, you are gone forever and you will no longer exist... May the servant of God, Ailena, rest in peace. Our dear brother. In a bright place Instead of greenery... The main attack will be on the centre at Fundeni Namoloasa. We will make four divisions and one Bulgarian division available to General von Morgen. I repeat, victory is absolutely necessary, allowing the transport of some troops to the western front where we are in trouble. I think that the revolution in Russia will be a new ally of our offensive. Rommel? did you bring it? Yes, Marshal. And? What impression did it make on you? I think that in Romania there is no military tradition among the nobility. I doubt that such a character could convince the Romanian army to go over to our side. I received a phone call from His Imperial Majesty, Charles of Austria himself. We have to receive him as an important guest. I don't believe in his authority either, but we are obliged to try. To the north, Catholic Poland, to the south Romania, a Latin country the only barriers against the Russians. Herr Marshal... You are welcome, prince. Long live, Mr. General. What happened? So it is confirmed.. Sturza is a traitor. What surprises me is not his attitude, but the Germans who seem to have given him a special welcome. I understand resorting to any means, but this is too much even for the Germans. Something else? Today around lunch time he was caught in the sector of the 8th division, Paltin point, lieutenant-colonel Crainiceanu with a bag of manifestos and confessed that he met between the lines with colonel Sturza. The sergeant and the patrol that accompanied him unmasked him. I want to see Crainiceanu. Get in touch with his father, General. Culmea, sir, first a colonel with princely blood and now, the son of a general, former minister of war. What will the soldiers say? Get on! Leave us alone. What's gotten into you, sir? Mr. General... How do you explain your actions? You know me since I was a child. How do you think I could have... What do you mean? Are you trying to deny the obvious? are you fooling me? I came to a man who has to justify his actions... ...sir. Not to some. Mr. General, please.. It was a thoughtless act... childhood. But I know that if you want, you have the power not to follow through on what happened. Get in. A telegram from Mr. General Crainiceanu. Read it. Mr. General, between my country and my son, I do not hesitate to do my duty to my country. Decide what your duty dictates. General Grigore Crainiceanu. This is the pinnacle! So he thinks that I need someone to remind me how I should do my duty. Well... Then I will do what he had to do as a father and as a former minister of war. Mr. Lieutenant Colonel, I give you one last chance. Do what remains to be done yourself. General, but there is no evidence against me! There is. The two notebooks of Sturza forgotten next to the body of the orderly, the soldiers and the sergeant who accompanied you to the meeting. If I make this gesture, it means that I admit my fault. I have family, General. I have two children. Did you not know this when you planned the facts? I can't. I can't! You hand him over to the Court Martial. I can't! This is not about desertion, but a betrayal of the country, made with premeditation and calculation! I will ask for capital punishment. I can not! The one who built me ​​and told me "You are earth and to earth you will return The Lord made man from the earth and returned them to the earth again. Our Lord and God Jesus Christ with his grace and mercy for people to forgive you, son Mircea, to leave you with all your sins and I, the unworthy priest and clergyman, with the power given to me, I forgive you and release you from all your sins, in the name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, Amen! Sister! No moaning! No screaming! The queen is coming! Your Majesty... he's an artillery lieutenant, I operated on him last night. Wounded in the head and lungs. We are doing everything we can to save them, Your Majesty. Soldier Ghinea Ion, wounded at the monastery Are you married? Do you have children? I have three, your Maria... and I don't know if I will ever see them again. You will get healthy and go home. Second lieutenant Titus Frentiu. I am from Transylvania. From near Turda, Your Majesty. You came to us voluntarily. Yes, Your Majesty. I ran away from the Austro-Hungarian army since last September. I see you are feeling quite well. Where were you hurt? I lost both my legs. Your Majesty... Do you know Catalina Toderoiu? Catalina Toderoiu... of course I know her. I absolutely have to see her. Please, Your Majesty. Sister... Second Lieutenant Catalina Toderoiu. Regiment 43/59 Lupeni. Born in Gorj, Caieni village. I am 23 years old.. What a young woman you are! I have heard of you and your deeds of arms. I am happy to meet you. I understood that you have recovered and that you will soon leave here. I'm going to ask you to come and look for me. I will find a suitable place for you. Great honour for me, Your Majesty, but... my place is at the front. next to my comrades. Aren't you afraid of death? I got used to it, your Maria. Strange! Thinking of her, a woman living among soldiers, in the trenches, on the front. even here, in the hospital, I imagined it completely differently. She's a fine girl, almost flamboyant even trained. May God protect her. I think it's not normal. Or maybe it's just her. how are you feeling I slept a little. My leg hurt so bad..! I had a dream.. What a dream? It was as if we were in a field. I saw a white bride.. Beautiful... Will it be bad? No, no.. No, no, it's fine. It means you are doing well. I brought you some food. And a cup of wine. If you want cigarettes... I'll give them to you. Thanks, I'm not hungry, you can have them. Give me a glass of wine as if I'm drinking. You are.. Sergeant Dumitru Ailena, Mr. Lieutenant Colonel. are you Ionel's brother Colonel Sturza's order? Yes, Lieutenant Colonel. He was our brother. You betrayed me. I mean, you denounced me. Why? Your glass, officer. Please... tell me why? It's not what you think. All of us brothers were called to be part of the firing squad and because we refused, we were made to serve and guard you. I carry out the order, that's why I'm here. But I didn't want to. Do you think I'm to blame for your brother's death? I didn't ask you anything, sir When you want to do big things, you never ask us, the peasants. In the forest, when you met with Mr. Colonel Sturza, you gave me a bag with manifestos. You thought I didn't know a book. You think we are too stupid, gentlemen officers! But now nothing can change. Ionel is dead.. You can escape. If you need something, knock on the door. I heard that the conservatives want to elect you party president and form a new opposition. Rumours and intrigues. I'm a soldier and that's all. Your majesty is surrounded by people who do not approve of me. Some of them really hate me. You mean General Prezan and Major Antonescu. The list could go on. With Mr. Bratianu, Prince of Stirba... general Berthelot... And many others. However, I know some people who care about the date, General. My wife, Queen Mary. He is one of these people. Even Mr. Bratianu, I could say. Besides, I wanted to know your opinion regarding the conviction of Lieutenant Colonel Crainiceanu. I received a report in which you appeal the court's decision to sentence you to 15 years in hard prison. Your Majesty, in the same situation two soldiers were sentenced to death How would I appear before the band if I accepted another sentence for a superior officer? Were the soldiers executed? One, yes. The other died in the meantime. If the same punishment is not applied, Your Majesty, I will resign. Mr. General, you are his direct commander so you decide. Still try to find out what Crainiceanu knows. I really know you since you were little. Your father is my friend. Prezan, the chief of the general staff is your mother's brother. What do you want from me, General? I remember a certain text of yours. "The mouth and heart of the army was closed at any cost The army judges, suffers, revolts, becomes a herd of disaffected, frantic, incapable of victory." And you also said.. that "the Ministry of War is affiliated with politics and his minister is the prisoner of political men." Where do you want to go, General? I think that what you did is the beginning of a plot. Do you want me to admit that I am a traitor? Is that all you remembered from what I wrote? You omitted to talk about the national ideal, of the deep chasm between the ruling class and the ruled classes and the fact that it depends only on our consciousness that this gap can be filled, that true human virtues are love and affection. Do you really want to know if I'm not part of a conspiracy? Although the proposal I make to you is "contre coeur" tell me who is behind this action, maybe we can find a solution. The king wants to know who his enemies are. This time you made a mistake, Mr. General. Mr. General, please pass on to my uncle, General Prezan don't forget that I have two children. I will tell him. The year 1917 will be decisive in the defeat of the Central Powers. Our offensive will begin with an attack by the Romanian 2nd Army led by General Averescu, located in the Vrancea region and has the objective of pushing the enemy to the Putna valley while on his right the 9th Russian army fixes the front. The Romanian First Army led by General Cristescu will give the main blow to Siret in Fundeni, Namoloasa and will advance towards Ramnicu sarat. While the Russian 4th and 6th armies will cover the manoeuvrers of the Romanian 1st army. The offensive will have the role of forcing the Germans to keep their troops on the Romanian front. and to allow a general offensive in France and Italy. Are there any questions? Your Majesty, there was talk of fixing the front and destroying the enemy. but the enemy forces are inferior to us and there is no possibility of taking the initiative, so the front is fixed. In 1916 the Germans beat us. They conquered the capital. But they failed to destroy us. Do you think we can destroy the Germans? I think it's the best plan. I chose the enemy's weakest fortified area for the main attack. Breaking the front in the plain leads to manoeuvred operations, Mr. General. It would be a huge mistake to think that we are superior to the Germans in manoeuvrers. Then, according to you, what should be the direction of the attack? The enemy has two fronts: One, from Oituz in Bucovina. The second, from Oituz to the Danube. I propose that the main attack be made in the direction of the conjunction of the two fronts. You propose that the main attack be made by the 2nd Army under your command. General DI Prezan proposes a simulated attack on the right wing in Marasti and a main attack on the centre of General Cristescu's 1st Army. Both of these plans betray your desire to fight so we approve the plan made by the General Staff. The 7th and 12th divisions will go to the 1st Army. Do you want to say something else? Your Majesty, I am a soldier. I will carry out the order and may God give them luck, but I fear a painful defeat on the front of the 1st army. On my front I am sure we will have a victory. This man knows everything. sees without seeing with eyes, hears without hearing with ears, he knows everything without thinking. He's arrogant, but he's a good soldier. You don't know him! I don't even want to, Your Majesty! I am lieutenant colonel Traian Ionescu. The country will be grateful to you. Sergeant Dumitru Ailena, 32nd Infantry Regiment. Are you the one who unmasked Lieutenant Colonel Crainiceanu? Congratulations! Your Majesty, with respect please... I lost a brother, but I have five other brothers left here on the front. and like the sons of Vrancioaia at the time of Stefan the Great, we all came to fight for the country and the king! Please order us all to be in the same military unit. Please! I am the eldest and I have to take care of them. Six brothers and all on the front? Yes. Two, the younger ones are volunteers. The one who fell was the order of Prince Sturza, then on the run. Has it become clear who killed them? He was killed with Romanian-made cartridges, Your Majesty. Let them all be part of sergeant Dumitru Ailena's platoon. Second Lieutenant Costa Constantin, Your Majesty. Courage. Soldier Donea Victor, Your Majesty. The country thanks you. Major Constantin Gheorghe, Your Majesty. Second Lieutenant Catalina Toderoiu, Your Majesty. how are you feeling I knew you in the hospital. I feel fine, Your Majesty. Can I do something for you? I wish to return to the front line of my platoon, Your Majesty. Thank you for your bravery and for your sacrifice so far. And I hope in your future bravery through which we will free the country from enemies.. I promise you that the land you are fighting for will be yours forever! Hatred! Hatred! Hatred! Say, Mr. Bratianu, what do you think of the morale of the army? Excellent, Your Majesty. Excellent. Did you see, Mr. General, how easily the crowd can be satisfied? You don't look too happy. We live, Mr. Goga, in a world without honour and without moral limits. How could I be happy? Maybe you, the politicians, can do it differently. Are you talking about our political class? Well, it confirms that we have reached a country full of droughts. A minor country, shamefully failed at the capacity test in front of Europe. Ordinary politicians brought us here. Thieves, improvise today in moralists. Ministers who have sold themselves a whole life. Parliamentarian smugglers. We do not collapse, General, neither because of the number of enemies, nor because of their weaponry. We have the disease in our souls. There is a frightening epidemic of moral meningitis and the country had to arrive here, perched on the edge of the precipice by some drivers who are highway thieves. You are too harsh! We will try to save what we can, even at the cost of blood. How? Like in Turtucaia, Caineni or Flemish? So you also criticize my Flemish sarge? Don't you think that after so much flight and defeat, someone should have ordered another attack? If I had won, I would only have praise. Now you always put me against the wall. A symbolic wall, Mr. General. Moral wall? A wall of consciousness. But I assure you that I will not stop believing that we can oppose any enemy. and it is better to perish in the attack than to flee from the enemies. This is my belief. War is not a lottery, General. Not always, sir. You found something? About what, Your Majesty? About the plot.. Crainiceanu, Sturza? So far I haven't gotten anything from him. I count on you. It is very important for me to know who is betraying me. For honour ahead! Present the weapon! Hatred! Hatred! On our right, the 9th Russian army starts the offensive together with us. Gentlemen officers, we measure ourselves in almost equal conditions with the best soldiers in the world. I have firm confidence in our troops on the front of my army. I am convinced that our offensive will mean a title of glory for the Romanian soldier. and for the country, of pride. Artillery training started today at 8 o'clock and the assault will be tomorrow. 11th of July at dawn at 4 o'clock. This time we will win. Fire! Fire! Where the hell did they get so much artillery and have they even learned to use it! The words of the crazy Major Aluia "Artillery conquers, infantry occupies" I didn't think we would live through hell again since then. Be careful, they send patrols or attack. Order to the entire front of the 2nd army. This morning at 4 o'clock I confirm the general assault. Are there any questions? No, to live! Thank you. I will also try to sleep for about two hours. Mr. General, Second Lieutenant Ecaterina Teodoroiu What can I do for you, honey? What is it? What happened? Mr. General, I have been fighting on the front for six months; I was wounded twice and you call me "coward"? You are right. Tall me. I'm probably tired. I'm listening, Second Lieutenant. I have not yet received the appointment to my regiment, Mr. General. You are making the appointment today, is that clear? I understand. The artillery has stopped. Do you remember that these madmen are attacking! Colleague...I invite them to dance. The day is starting to lighten up. Dumitre Since we came to the front, we keep seeing you with this bag. You carry it everywhere with great care. Won't you also tell us what you have in it? At the beginning of the war, I was in Transylvania when in a village they start targeting us with shells from all sides. The officer ordered us to disperse and I don't know how I ended up sheltering in a church. It was raining shells that shattered everything. When I look up above me... an icon of the Lord Jesus Christ who seemed to be telling me to run away from there. let go and run into a road ditch. Well, a shell fell right over the church. After the fall, I returned among the ruins and found a piece of the icon.. which I carry with me ever since. Call the attack. Give me the commander. Colonel? What is it? The Romans attacked. Major Kleiss wants to speak with you. Mr. Colonel. Onslaught! Calm down, Herr Kleiss! The whole sector is under attack! We are outnumbered! What time is it? It's past 4:30. Collect mortar fire on the Romanian positions. I understand. Come on! Forgive me for not being able to receive you until now, but.. Yes, I know. I understand. But tell me who should I go to? When Nicolae Filipescu incites the army to rebel against the political power or General Iliescu, together with Bratianu, put thousands of barefoot and disarmed soldiers under the fire of German machine guns and nobody says anything. Instead, General Prezan, in order not to appear weak in front of Averescu, allows his nephew to be executed. Hopes are not lost. But I can't do anything. You know, my relationship with Averescu is very strained and the king and especially the queen feel injured. They believe in a plot in which Sturza and Grigore are tools. A plot? Dear good! A plot against the current monarchy. So things are complicated. I'm getting over myself. Please believe me. My son, in a plot against the king? It's crazy for someone to believe such a thing! In Iasi, I heard rumours that Sturza would have acted on the orders of Ferdinand who in reality would like reconciliation with Germany and Grigore, the only one who knows the truth it must be taken with him to the grave! God forbid! Stop saying that! Then why did he decorate it before fleeing? Why did he give him a division under his command when Averescu accused him of running away from the enemy? I think the only chance would be to talk to the queen. She is the only one who can change the situation. General... we are ready. My dear, I'm sorry. Duty. We stay in touch anyway. And do what I told you. You came on time. I can't do anything. Things are beyond me. It's a race that Averescu is giving us. He was friends with your nephew, but there's nothing we can do. Some consider him and Sturza what Lenin and Trotsky are in Russia. Let the king decide. That's what I'm going to do. That's all we had! "If I'm going to die, you, God, give me a valiant death!" Shut up! "A bullet in the flower of the skull in the fight to hit me!" "The crippled body wrapped in the tricolour cloth! My trumpeters are crying for me, not mother, not sister!" Rude! "With a helmet, with weapons..." Escape! With a helmet, with decorated weapons, a bridegroom chosen for death... Don't screw them up! Let the soldiers carry me!" Shut up, he can hear us! Who? Death! The death! Retreat! Bugler, sound the retreat! Retreat, bugler! Retreat, lads! The whole front is going well. Only at elevation 711 do we stand still. Forward. All information comes directly to me. General's report... And if someone still dares to give a withdrawal order, he goes directly to the Court Martial! What's the matter? You have a letter from Colonel Crainiceanu's wife. Allow me. I received a phone call from Her Majesty Queen Maria to give you this letter urgently. Are you crazy? Is that why I'm burning now? I want news from Marasti. The village of Marasti and several elevations provided in the attack plan were conquered. At night, in certain places and tomorrow morning on the entire front, the attack resumes The 1st Army and Mr. General Berthelot here at the front are asking for an extension of the bombardment and postponing the offensive by 24 hours in the direction of Namoloasa. I trust the opinion of General Berthelot and General Cristescu. A well-prepared attack saves effort and reduces losses. Give Averescu a telegram. Be careful because it is sensitive. Write. To the Second Army. General Averescu. Order. Stop the offensive. That much. That much? Well, Mr. General said that... That's it. Stoiane, you have to be laconic with Averescu, otherwise you're doing yourself a disservice. Mr. General. The offensive of the 1st Army has been postponed for 48 hours. The General Staff asks us to postpone the attack. Teach me what to do! This major can no longer see the length of his nose. Transmit. Let the artillery beat all night at level 711. At dawn, the attack. Gentlemen, you have forgotten German dignity. You put my regiment to shame. It's 22:10. At 02:50 you will attack the enemy! I do not accept withdrawal! That's crazy! Artillery fire until 02:30. Then we let them fall asleep in peace. And the assault follows. I will be in front of you! Only people who are not afraid of death can work miracles like gods! Execution! For him, playing with death is a delight. Mind your business, he talks about the death of others. Hey, you run away from death in vain! Here on the front, death is in each of us. Listen to what Franz has to say, otherwise you won't escape! Guys, I fucked up. The new commander is crazy. Crazy, I tell you, only good to tie! You have no experience, Herr Leutnant! We had a lot of these in France! What, one like Major Kleiss? I doubt. Cartoon with monster actions. He's a criminal. Major Kleiss you said? Yes! Do you know him? Is this the new regimental commander? Yes, but I ask you one more time, do you know him? Is he a thin one, with a monocle in his left eye? Exact. This is a beast, Lieutenant. Franz was handed over to the court-martial for giving water to the prisoners We will have to stay away from him. I don't think you will succeed. At night, at 02:50, attack on the Romanian lines. He will be with us. Is that you, Nae? It's me. Come on! And you brought your potia. Since I found it in a German trench, I can't part with it. Are you good at anything? If it's good? When he feels the Germans, he is happy and pulls my clothes! Well, what more do I need? I baptized him...Puta. Nice name! Yes baby yes.. Look, do you hear? The cannons were also silent. Pray to God that it will be good! Yes, when do you pray to God to be bad? Never. Sure. When do you say "God forbid it be bad"? I don't know. When you buy a dog, ma! Don't you say "God forbid it be bad"? Ma...ma, you were a shepherd, ma! Well, how do you know? You, from there! NCOs! Long live, Major Kleiss. I told you that the world is small and we might meet again! You have reasons to be happy, I have none. You still have a sharp tongue. In 20 minutes we will start the attack. And you will be in front of me 20 metres away. You and your people, do you understand? I understand, Major! You will attack three times in succession and you will be in front of your platoon, clear? Why are you laughing, petty officer? I was thinking, what face will you make if I fall at the first attack? Before! It's in the back. Be careful. You stay behind. Come here. Before! For the attack, forward! Call the attack! Before, after me! Mitule! Dumitre! I was left without an officer! Retreat... Back! Go back! This thing reminds me of France. I think it applies here as well. After last night's attack from hill 711, the Germans retreated leaving the hill and its fortifications. The enemy retreats in disorder. A phone call from the big headquarters. DI major Ion Antonescu draws our attention that the advance of the left of the 2nd army endangers the right of the 4th Russian division. The tampons. The enemy retreats in disarray and they are afraid of counterattacks. We go to the first line. General. A telegram from the Grand Headquarters. Order 34 of Prezan and Antonescu asks us to the two armies to stop any offensive action due to some defects that appeared on the Russian front. And that army didn't even start the offensive. What a concept! Instead of exploiting the breach made by me, they ask me to stop? Gentlemen, continue the offensive! I will also give you a written order and I ask you to reach Putna by night. Heavy and field artillery will be deployed in order to continue the offensive. Prezan's telegram. "The execution of Crainiceanu can only take place with the establishment of the front". And another of his Majesty, in which he finds the answer to the pardon request made by the convict's mother and wife. "We must set an example for the entire Romanian army." Attention, straight! Long live, Mr. General! what is it Don't you want to find him a master? More, brave! Don't you take them? Give it to a soldier to take it to the car. I understand. He lets himself be impressed by a puppy and the next moment he is eager to execute an officer. He is a great gentleman! Our death who is with us, Give us our daily bullet And does not forgive us our sins and does not lead us into temptation but deliver us from the evil one. He no longer leaves us in the temptation of life for Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever and ever! Amen! Major! Antonescu. Major, I report, at Marasti, the Germans are retreating. General, we can still win the war with the Germans. Give me permission to attack the centre at Fundeni Namoloasa and continue the attack of the 2nd army. We will catch the Makensen army group as if in a pincer. If they are lucky they can run away and then in a week we are in Bucharest. You forget that the Russians stopped any action on the Romanian front. and that the order does not come from Scerbacev but even from Kerensky. Any Russian commander would feel the moment extremely favourable for obtaining a great victory. It would be revenge for what happened in Galicia. It's not about Russian army officers, sir! You don't understand that the Russian soldier no longer wants to fight and the new leadership of Russia no longer has any authority! God, how I hate the Russians! Mr. General, in 1916, when we entered the war, we could easily reach the Tisa. If the army from Dobrogea had not shamefully lost the battles in Turtucaia and Flanders we could play a fundamental role in this war. I could. But in Dobrogea the Russians also left the fight. Now we have a double opportunity. We have to play the ace we have! Tomorrow comes his majesty, the king. We will talk to him. I remind you of Hildemburg's theory. He who attacks puts success on his side. He who gives up or is forced to give up, is surely lost. Sire, in 1916, when Romania declared war on us he found us completely unprepared for the new enemy. I remind you all these details to understand the crisis we are in today. In reality, never such a small power as Romania he did not have the opportunity to play in the history of the world such a big decision-making role and at such a favourable moment. Never, two empires as strong as Austria and Germany they did not depend on the deployment of a country's forces whose population is 20th of their own population. By Your Highness's permission, Sire in the current situation after the success in Galicia and the critical situation of Russia on the verge of revolution I propose to give Mackensen the freedom to decide on his own this time as well. In my turn, I say "you decide", Mr. Marshal! and by the function you have, and by the trust we all have in you. I will go to the front in Moldova. Long live, Mr. General! 25th Infantry Regiment of the 8th Division, 2nd Army in formation with 30 officers, 800 soldiers, it is ready for the ceremony. Hello, soldiers! To live! We can start. At arm's length! Better the death of a man than the ruin of a people! That's what Caiaphas said. In fact, a reasoning that Ernest.. considered abhorrent. For conservative parties Thank you for the special invitation. Did you think I wouldn't come? I was sure that you would come precisely because he is your grandson. In fact, he was convicted by the Court Martial of the First Army but the pardon depends on the king and not on me. Decision! In the name of the law and of his Majesty, the king The court martial of the 1st army pronounced sentence no. 35 on appeal. In the end, an example was wanted, probably insisted on by the French and especially by the Russians. There were many suspicious moments An unjustified withdrawal of Sturza's brogazia the execution of second lieutenant Ciulai, just one day before his transfer to the enemy. as well as taking the king to line I. Do you think that is why the Crown refused the pardon? Political matters and intrigues, sir. The desire of the Russians and the French to punish a philo-German. ...to the death penalty and military degradation. The execution will take place in front of the regiment, today, the 13th of June 1917. Father, forgive me. But I want to die in the Catholic, Apostolic and Romanian religion in which I was born.. God bless you, son. Last wish. Please convey to my wife that at the last moment my thoughts were with her. And to insist on the revision of the process. Shooting position, taken! Load! Aim! Fire! Why us, Dumitre? Shut up, bugler! Hello gentlemen. Nando, could I also know what's going on? Yesterday everyone was talking about a great victory and today I'm told to pack my bags to go to Russia! The king of Romania in Russia! The royal army in revolutionary Russia? Who will help us there, gentlemen? Let's not talk about respect! Vous etes foux, Monsieurs? We have bad news. In Galicia, on the 6th of July, the Russian front was broken at Slotov. Russian military power is collapsing. The army has turned into disorderly gangs that run away, throw away weapons, loot and set fire. Archduke Iosif made a triumphal entry into Cernauti. Our northern front is threatened. Of course, the Austrians will seek to occupy Odessa which for us is the end. When I left England I gave up everything. I gave this country four heirs. Neither I nor they have anything else but this country. or do you want to see them roaming Europe like German princes without inheritance? The ideals of this country are also mine. For me there is no other option but to stay here. Whatever may befall! Fight, gentlemen! Fight, gentlemen! This is your duty, I will not run away under any circumstances! If that is the case, I will perish with the country. Gentlemen, I would like you not to be upset I have to stay alone with the king, Prince Carol and our friend, Mr. General Berthelot. Paul wants to get engaged. With whom? With Zizi Lambrino. Yes, with Zizi Lambrino. Okay, son, just now when the country is about to disappear when we don't know what tomorrow will be like, does the crown prince want to get engaged? What will people say? The poor people..allies? How do you mean? What, there are no more loves? Is there nothing but love of country? Dead, wounded? Where does this theory come from? You are not an ordinary man. You are the crown prince. I give up. I don't need the throne. And so it seems that we will lose them. I love and will marry this woman, regardless of what you or others think. I will not return to the front until you accept my engagement. Okay, but you're a regimental commander! How can you say such a thing? Your Majesty... Mon General.. You speak German, my dear, and I didn't understand anything. What do you think? For the good of Romania, forget that he is your son. Von Morgen, you say? Yes, thank you. Gentlemen, victory! Von Morgen put the Russians on the run! The 12th Bavarian division and the 216th reserve division reached the Romanian front on Siret. Tomorrow we will have the honour of the emperor assisting our victorious offensive. You are my guests. An attack started like this deserves a glass of champagne. They say that the emperor is a pianist, where he appears, we lose another battle. It would be better if they promised us two weeks of leave... and we would win the battle. Please... For victory! What the hell is wrong with you? Don't you hear how the earth cries? At home you told me that you could hear the dandelions crying. And didn't dad die after a week? Don't you hear how the grass cries, how the forests cry? And who will die? I dreamed of lighting a candle at my cross. And she was not alone. Death may have died. Gas! Masks! Put on your masks! Sergeant, the gas is coming. Put on your masks. I understand. Lads, the masks! Come on, masks. Sergeant, what am I doing? Where's your mask? I lost it. Stay here. Come soldiers, come with masks! Hurry up! And castles! Put on the castles! Masks, masks! Everyone, masks! To the right of the Romanian front the 4th Russian army of Prince Ragoza was defeated and forced to retreat 5 km. At the moment, we are attacking the Romanians who remained in place. Are there many? A Romanian division tries to oppose. He has no chance. What news do you have about the north east front? How is von's attack going.. The operations started on the 8th of August, succeeding in breaking the enemy front. Your Majesty, in 3-4 days the two armies will meet closing the pincers around the Romanians and the Russians. I hope so, Marshal! A failure would cost us too much! We need troops on the western front and this depends only on the situation on this front. Put on your gas masks. Gas masks! Put on your gas masks. You are new to me in the unit. He heard that you fought in France. Yes, Lieutenant. Non-commissioned officer Franz Jürgen. I'm counting on you. I'll go ahead of you in the attack. When they moved us there, I thought we would escape. When there... You mention that these desperadoes will make us attack on a gassed ground. That's how I escaped in Valle d'Aix Maybe we can escape now. Don't forget, mask your face, don't run fast... "Think only of yourself". I know, my friend, I know. But will death be knowing? Put your bayonets! Put your bayonets! Bayonet attack! Gentlemen, after two days it is obvious that none of the strategic goals pursued by the 4th army have been achieved. The Romanian 2nd Army was not captured. We didn't even succeed in chasing the Romanians over Siret. I know that the units you lead had heavy losses. The strength of the divisions that took part in the battle decreased a lot. Hospitals no longer have room to receive the wounded. The Romanian army became a formidable opponent. However, we need a victory to change the balance of power in the West. Sire, the tactic I applied was to penetrate the front at its weak points that is, where there were Russian troops. The units of the Romanian army managed to replace the fleeing Russians in a very short time. In front of the Romanians entering the battle, ours, tired, were forced to retreat. From tomorrow we will attack where the opponent is the strongest. No sparing of people and materials. Through the breach that will be made, the forces that will cause the overthrow of the entire front will enter. We know. Your favourite strategy. So? Tomorrow we will attack. In two days we have to get the decisive victory. Transmit! Any piece of land conquered by the enemy must be immediately followed by a counter attack Each regiment that will go to attack will take its flag with it. To all units! Each regiment that will go to attack will take its flag with it! Captain Ignat At the top of this hill there is a fortification where there are still some soldiers without officers. If this quota is conquered by the enemy, the entire 2nd army will be conquered by the Germans. You will defend this place at all costs. I know exactly what I have to do, Mr. General! I only have 4 machine guns left, but I assure you that only our corpses will pass over that place! I believe in you, Ignate. Take Captain Popa and his company. Pass it on. Take it! John, pass it on. Make sure you don't spill it! Attention! Keep going! Sergeant! Order! You came from Marasti, you are an experienced man You choose the most determined people The hard work. And we who thought he would give up on Averescu's offensives. The transfer of our division to the 1st army gives me a strange feeling. As Averescu was, he knew what he wanted. Don't go away from me. A flower... Come on, leave it. Come on guys, faster. Come on boys, come on. Come on! Lying down! Andrei! Andrei! Something broke in my stomach... but it doesn't hurt. It doesn't hurt. It doesn't hurt! Gregory! Pick up the dead and put them in firing position! I understand that we don't have time to bury them, but really, to make fun of them? They are immortal. They are dead! They are broken by shells and bayonets! They are thieves who stink and eat worms and rats, that's what they are! It's a sin what we do! From the rotting thieves will emerge their deeds that become immortal! Remember what I told you! Look at the icon. Leave her here with you. No, no, I'm going up with you, Miss Dumitre. I climb because I have nothing. Listen to me! Bayonet attack against the grenadiers! And I? To the grenadiers! Execution! And I? You go to the division and bring two crates of dynamite! Clear? Dumitre! What am I doing? Go! Attention! Bayonet attack! It's crazy! People are exhausted! If ours are exhausted, so are theirs! I drive here! Clear? Bayonet attack! Before! Stephen! Gheorghe! Gheorghe! Dumitre! Dumitre! I'm coming..I'm coming now! The fire of war would burn you You took my flowers from the valley and the most beautiful flames, It's like I see them coming out of the village when they've had their good day Stephen! Stephen! Dumitre! Dumitre! Help me boys! to me, Dumitre! What's the matter, what's happening? Yes. Relax. Take me, take me from here. Take me with you. Now! Come on! Take me from here. It was to hit you. Come on, we have a little more. Here we come. Take it. Take care that he is injured. He's dead. To places! George! Sergeant! Dead in firing position! They are my brothers, Captain. Execution! Come on, Dumitre, I'll help you. Come back. These are crazy. Back! Retreat! Oh my God! Captain, dead in firing position. And the chip... "The effort required of my comrades is probably the last God forgive me The country will judge me, Captain Ignat" God forgive you, Mr. Captain. I don't forgive you. Mr. Colonel! I don't risk the lives of my people. Yes. By tomorrow morning the quota will be conquered. I know what I have to do. Lieutenant, aren't we attacking? No, no! With detour to the right. Wait! Ten minutes rest. Catherine! Catherine! Welcome, Catalina! Yes, you report any movement to me. General, the two companies and four machine guns of Capitan Ignat and Popa remained in the redoubt. For two hours I have been trying to get in touch with them to send them the withdrawal order Did you launch retreat missiles? Yes, but they did not execute. Two scouts sent never returned. You go there and give Ignat my written order to withdraw. It's my fault for not executing the withdrawal. I come from there, General. I know the way. I can convince the captain. In order. Take the bugler too. Just the two of you go. I understand. Herr leutnant, the flamethrowers are ready. We begin the assault. Hell, what people, we've been shooting at them for a whole day and they don't move! Don't shoot! I'm a Romanian officer! But these are dead! And these are dead! Soldier! Soldier! God, they're dead! guys... This is Ignat! Me! "The effort required of my comrades is probably the last. God forgive me. The country will judge me. Captain Ignat" Yes, bugler! Bugler! Now! Mr. General... They are all dead. Dead? Okay, but there's the fight! Do you hear? The bugler... What are you doing, niece? What are you thinking about? Look, Miss... This earth is like a curse. We work for him all his life and he, forced, returns all the fruits to us. We kill ourselves for him, as if that wasn't enough.. Until one day, when everything ends. We enter it, and we make earth. The earth gives us everything and takes everything from us. Are you afraid of death? We are born with fear in us, Miss. I taught her first in life. And we go with her in one, until the end! If I'm afraid of death? Well, if a person is afraid of thunder, fire, water... of torment and pain, which are all transient.. how can he not be afraid of death, which is eternal? That's right. That's right... Prepare the evacuation of the city of Focsani and look for reserves that can intervene urgently. Your Majesty. What is it? Mr. General Prezan will announce a great victory in Marasesti. Bravo! See, I told you! Tomorrow we will go to the front! Congratulations, Your Majesty! Thank you! Gentlemen, a great victory is announced on the Marasesti front. The king, the queen and many political people will be there tomorrow. Strange. No one came to our victory in Marasti. Finally. On the Oituz front, the situation is quite difficult. The enemy is on the offensive. We must not give in. I will direct the operations. It was understood? Understood, to live! Are you upset? No. Say! I brought you some potatoes. They are made on embers. They are warm...don't burn yourself! You are new to my platoon. What's your name? Nelu. Nelu Plavitiu. But I have known you for a long time. Where from? From your brother who fell on Arges. We were in the same platoon. I sat next to him until he closed his eyes. He asked me to give you these. Thank you, Nelula. Forgive me for causing you pain, but I had to give them to you. The kiss. Fast, fast! Quick! Catalina... What's with you? You are very pale! I had a bad dream. What the? I dreamed of a bride. And who was it? Who was it? I was! It will be fine. Yes? Come on chaps, faster. Come on, go, go! Before! After me! Forward! Nelule! To the right, at the rock! Before! Bugler! Sound the retreat! Retreat! Back in order! Back! Retreat! Back! Retreat! Back! Retreat! Catherine! The child of the Jiului plains meant in her short life a bright path on the dark paths of the calvary of war. She fulfilled her providential mission to the ultimate self-sacrifice. Catalina Toderoiu filled my heart with charm, pride and faith in the vigour of the Romanian soul. Kneel down, you who are alive in front of the majesty of those who gave their lives for the country!