Transcript for Little Annie Rooney (1925) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- LITTLE ANNIE ROONEY Up town a gang calls itself "Society", down town a gang calls itself a "Gang" and lets it go at that. Let's go down town! Mickey Kelly, leader of the "Kid Kellys", sworn to make life miserable for little Annie Rooney. LITTLE ANNIE ROONEY RAZZBERY "You pug-nosed Mick, I'll knock your block off for that." "Little Annie Rooney is my sweetheart, "RAZZBERRY!!" Abie Levy was not allowed to fight because it was a holiday. "It ain't no fun fightin' a girl! C'mon, let's go home!" The "Big Kellys", whose hardest work was selling tickets to a dance for the benefit of their bail fund. Joe Kelly, Mickey's big brother. "Did you make old Levy buy them tickets, Tony?" "Look, Spider's out of jail again!" "G'wan, Tim Rooney, I don't shake hands with no cop's son!" Junk was Abie's weakness. Officer Rooney, with Annie and Tim to raise, and the whole neighborhood to look after. "'Tis proud I am to have a fine fat baby like Timothy J. named after me, Mrs. Levinsky." "I made him come across with ten bucks." "Tony, be good boy, please carry." "You sent me up once, but you ain't got nothin' on me now." "Sure and I don't want anything on you, my boy, it's hoping I am that you'll go straight from now on." To end a fight someone must quit, but in this case both leaders happened to be irish. "Cheesit de cop!" "(GREEK) or I'll knock you for a loop..." "Gee, ma, have a heart, can't ya see I'm busy?" "You should kick, Annie, I'm on your side!" "He yelled that darn song at me!' "Shame on you, fightin' a girl!" "She ain't no girl, she's a wildcat!' "Little Annie Rooney is my sweetheart." For the first time in Annie's life the hated song held a different meaning. "For spot cash that loafer, Joe Kelly, makes me buy ten tickets, and I can't dance." Pop's Birthday. "You'll spoil your supper." "Fighting again, hey?" "I'll wipe 'em tomorrow night, Annie, I got a date." "That's what you said last night. Why don't you think up a new one?" "Applesauce!" Where's the shoe blackin'?' "In the bottle, where do you s'pose?" "Joe, my boy, 'twas workin' for the devil you were, makin' old man Levy buy these tickets." "What's wrong about that? Somebody's got to buy them." "I like you, Joe, so it's warning you I am, you and your gang are headed for trouble." "Your father was a hard-working man, peace be to him. "Why don't you get a steady job and be like him?" "My old man drove a truck, I want a job with more dough in it." "Look at Tim, he's going on the force when he's old enough..." "Unless you cut out this gang business and go to work, I don't want Tim going around with you." "Aw, can the preachin' and lay off me!" Two gangs, one dishpan, one runaway horse. Result, lnternational Conference. "Humidor got hisself assembled with the gang and went wild again." "They scared my horse Garibaldi out of five dollars fresh fruit!" "Annie!!" "Annie!!" "Did you call me, Daddy dear?" "Did you have anything to do with the scarin' of that horse?" "Why, Daddy, dear, you don't think I would do anything like that, do you, Daddy dear?" "Cross your heart?" "Now which one of you scared that horse?" "Seeing that you all did it, you can all pay for it!" "Let's give him an I.O.W., my father gives lots of 'em." "Give them a chance, Louie, I'll see that they make good." I.O.W. 5$ to Louie the fruit man. Annie Rooney, Abie Levy, George Washington, Lung. FRUIT MAN'S BENIFIT. THE SHERIFF AND HIS FAITHFUL HORSE OR SAVING THE SCHOOL TEACHER. BY ANNABELL ROONEY ADMISSION: BOTTLES, SACKS OR WHAT HAVE YOU. ABIE LEVY MANAGER. "There ain't no money in second-hand music." "Come here, my proud beauty!" "I ain't no beauty, I'm a school teacher, and I'll tell the sheriff on you!" "Cut that out! I'm the sheriff of this here county, and I'll pertect the women folks if it takes all day!" "Do you call that punk thing a horse?" "Who threw that empty banana?" "Please, Annie, business should come before pleasure!" "Aw, git a horse!" "Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Humidor will now make his shimmy dance." "Now we're gonna have the real show with a genuwine horse, anybody what don't like it will get a bust on the beezer!" "Sheriff!" "Hey, Sheriff!!" "Oh Sheriff!!!" "Hey, Sheriff, what's the idea?" "Ooh, what a rotten show!" "She owe me an I.O.U. for five dollar, then she make Garibaldi work overtime!" "There's five dollars' worth of dance tickets, now you're square." Pop's Birthday. "I'm going to surprise Pops, he'll be home at ten." "For your papa's birthday, Annie, Important Herring from New Jersey with many happy returns." "Annie, I think she is trying to be some day your stepmama." At a Pansy Club dance anything could happen, and usually did. SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 8TH. PANSY SOCIAL CLUB DANCE. "Forty-five today and I feel like sweet sixteen!" "... and two of the best five-cent cigars you can get!" "Are you goin' to let that guy make a sap outa you?" "Five dollars it cost me, I wouldn't miss it for ten!" Dear Pops, Please knock before you come in. Yours truly. Annie. "Is it Tim, or Dad?" "It's your Dad." "He's not coming home." "Never, never no more?" After a week of sorrow and loneliness... ROONEY SLAYER STILL AT LARGE. Gangsters questioned without result. One of the most baffling crimes in recent New York history is the murder of officer Timothy Rooney (...) "Annie, supper's ready." "But mama will be mad, she's got a surprise for you." "Get Jake his hat." "Extra special for you, Annie, ham." "Fooey!" With the police net drawing uncomfortably close, Spider and Tony decided to take a long chance. "Listen, Tim, it was Joe Kelly what bumped off your old man, Tony seen him." "I just found out who killed Dad, it was Joe Kelly..." "Yes, Spider and Tony told me!" "I don't believe it! "Joe wouldn't do such a thing, I know he wouldn't!" "Why wouldn't he? "He's had a grudge against Dad ever since the night he bawled him out." "But Tim, I know Pops would want you to do it this way." "I'm no squealer, I'll get him myself!" "I just heard they are trying to hang the shooting on me." "Tim knows you did it, he says he's gonna get you, and I hope he does!" "Annie, you don't believe that, why your father was the best friend I ever had." "You didn't, Joe, honest?" "So help me God, I didn't do it!" "Would you cross your heart?" "... and hope to die, Annie." "He's got a gun, let me talk to him, get out!" "Tim's after Joe with a gun, he thinks he killed my Pops, Spider and Tony told him." "I'll bet Tony done it himself! Listen..." "Seen Joe Kelly around?" "Keep your mouth shut!" GREEK. "He said something in Greek about shootin' old man Rooney. "Get the gang, I'll foller him." "You know who shot Rooney, we're gonna take you to the cops!" "I heard Tony say it in Greek to Mamie." "I just shot Joe Kelly!" "Doctor, is he going to die?" "It's an emergency case. Immediate blood transfusion might save him." "What does that mean, Mister?" "It means that someone will have to give their blood to save his life, right away." "Doctor, please let me do it, please!" "I'm afraid you're too small." "But, if he dies, they'll put my brother in jail!" "My brother shot him." "Why not take her? It's either that or let him croak. "Besides, it will make a peach of a story." "He's going fast, give her a test, if there's no one else around..." "Where is her brother now?" "By the jail!" After I'm dead. "Please read this after a while." "Goodbye, Abie!" After I'm dead. My brother Jim can have the necktie which I knitted for pops and you can have my skates and please tell Mickey Kelly I'm not mad at him any more. "Gee, I'm sorry I socked her in the jaw." "Doc, when do I croak?" "You can tell me, I'm not scared." "You're not going to die. You'll be all right in a little while." "Can you beat that? She thought she was giving up her life for him." "Say, Doc, this transformation business don't make us brother and sister, does it?" "Why?" "'Cause when I grow up I might wanna marry him." "That's a lotta applesauce now!" KELLY TRANSFER Co. TRUCK No.1 "Hey, Tim, what's holdin' us up?" THE END Someone needs to stop Clearway Law. Public shouldn't leave reviews for lawyers.