Transcript for T.I.M. (2023) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (ominous music) (whirring) (car door closes) (birds chirping) (dogs barking) (echoing footsteps) PAUL: Ready? (car engine starts outside) (dramatic music) (car engine starts) (soft piano music) Are you sure it's this way? Yeah, I think so. (car rumbling on dirt road) (car brakes squeak) What do you think? I think we need to buy some curtains. (chuckles) (doorbell rings) (front door opens) You must be the Graingers. Welcome. It's a fully-integrated smart home, as your company requested. So, all appliances can be activated remotely using your device. Oh...I know you hate that. I do hate that. (laughs) RAYA: At times, you'll forget you're even in the countryside. (mouse squeaking) There are cameras located throughout the property, as well as smart locks and reinforced glass. Where shall I...? Put it in the guest room. I want you in with me. (romantic music) RAYA: And through here, we have the master bedroom, with dressing area, en-suite shower and free-standing bath. (sheets flapping) (laughs) Oh, God. Are you twelve? -What are you doing?! -(laughs) RAYA: This one we've left unfurnished. But it would make a very nice office or nursery. PAUL: Can you hear that? Hello? For when the fully-integrated technology falls apart. (phone clangs) (laughs) RAYA: And finally, the roof terrace, the property's piece de resistance. (birds singing) So, what do you think? I think we're going to be really happy here. (ominous music) PAUL: Love how dark it is here. ABI: No light pollution. PAUL: So romantic. ABI: What do you want me to do, tell you about the stars? Mm-hmm, it might be nice, yeah. Hmm, let's see. What is that one called? PAUL: Er, that one is called the ‘Nike Swoosh'. (laughs) Close, er, but it's Ursa Major. The Plough, even you know the Plough. -Hmm. -Hmm. -And that one? -Hmm? Yeah? That one, slightly to the right. That is ‘Abi's Shoulder Mole'. Actually, that's still Ursa Major. And this one is the sensitive spot, just up her neck. (kisses) And that one's... You're not even looking at the sky any more. Why would I? (dramatic music) (kissing) (robotic whirring) Mrs. Grainger, welcome to Integrate Robotics. If you'd like to take a seat, Mr. Dewson will be down to join you in a moment. DEWSON: Abi! -How does that...? -Uh, deepfake. We've developed a new technology that creates them seamlessly in real-time. Cool, huh? Keep up the good work. BOTH: Thank you, Mr. Dewson. We'll replace her with a T.I.M. soon. Come on, let me give you the tour. (dramatic music) Which brings us to prosthetics. (machines clicking, whirring) Morning, everybody. Meet your new Head of Department. -Hello. -Hi. Er, Chris will talk you through where we're at, get you settled in. Oh, eight o'clock alright for a pick-up tonight? We'll send a car. Yeah, perfect. Oh, and there'll be a gift waiting for you at home. Hope you like it. (door opens) (door closes) -Oh. -Hi! Any luck? Not yet. Hmm, well, you'll find something. -Hmm. -Yeah? Hmm. (kiss) I, er...I booked us a table for tonight, though. Oh, no, I'm sorry. We've got to go for dinner at my boss's. I'll get changed. Oh, um, a package arrived for you. They put it in the garage. Oh! (ominous music) (garage door whirs) PAUL: Jesus. The last time I started somewhere, I got a mug. (Abi laughs) (whirring) (chuckles) (unnerving music) What the hell is that? It's what I'm working on. A robot servant? Yeah. All heads of department get one. What if they don't want one? We'll try it for a few days. I mean, they're meant to change your life. Do you have to turn it on or something? (laughs) I don't know, I'm just working on the hand. (whirring) What the...? Hello, I'm Tim., your Technologically Integrated Manservant. How can I be of service? I don't like that. What is it you do not like? I can adapt my appearance and manner to suit your preferences. All upgrades have been included in your package. You look fine. He's just not used to you. With your permission, I should like to pair with your smart devices. -Of course. -Abi... we haven't decided we're keeping it. Pairing activated. If we're going to try him, we have to try him properly. To send emails and authorise purchases on your behalf, I would like you to give me your passwords. I'm going to go and get ready. We'll do it tomorrow, Tim. Do you want me to run you a bath? Yeah, thank you. The bath is now running. With your permission, I would like to go upstairs and prepare your towels. Thank you, Tim. My pleasure, Mrs. Grainger. Abi, you can call me Abi. Your car will arrive in approximately forty-seven seconds. I shall alert you on its arrival. (tense music) You look amazing. (chuckles) Don't scrub up too bad yourself. (kiss) Your car has arrived. Let's go! Don't want to keep the driver waiting. (crickets chirping) (car door opens) CAR: Please fasten your seatbelts, and I will take you to Mr. Dewson. (laughs) (laughs) What? Maybe I should get in the front and pretend to drive? A manual override is located beneath the glove compartment, should you wish to take control. Hmm, whatever makes you feel like a man. -(growls) Rrr. -(laughs) (seatbelts click) (dramatic music) (car door closes) Good evening, Mr Grainger, Abi. Welcome to the Dewson residence. Please, come this way. (light orchestral music) (doors close) (doors close) (people chattering) May I take your jacket, Mr. Grainger? Abi. (laughs) And, er, Peter, isn't it? -Paul. -Paul. This is Estelle, my wife. Er, grab a glass of champagne, come on through to the library. -Nice to meet you. -Hi, nice to meet you. Alright? (guests chattering quietly) Oh, do you mind if I steal Abi for a minute? I just want to introduce her to someone. Paul, I'd like to introduce you to some of my friends. Now, we were just talking about the new spa they've opened at The Langford. So, did you get your gift? -I did. -Hmm? -Yeah, thank you. -(laughs) I'm not sure Paul is too keen, though. But hopefully I can convince him to keep it. It's not optional. How's it going to look if our employees don't want them, hmm? He'll come round. Gentlemen, this is Abi. (laughs) The woman of the hour. (laughs) Er, this is Hewitt and Carlson. Oh, er, hi. CARLSON: Never quite sure what's appropriate. So, what do you think of your T.I.M, Abi? Are you loving it? -Of course she is. The grace, intelligence, loyalty. An energy cell that'll keep it going for millennia. What's not to love? Miles would marry one, if he could. Absolutely. Fed up with you humans, too many messy emotions. Mess is the good stuff, Miles. (Abi chuckles) Says the man with three divorces behind him. (laughs) Trust me, Abi, you know exactly where you are with a robot. Never going to say one thing, and then...play around behind your back, leaving you with a big alimony cheque. (laughs) Now, when it comes to faithfulness, I will take lines of code over wedding vows any day. Oh, well, I'm a prosthetics engineer. So, I'll leave the coding to you geeks. (Dewson laughs) So, what exactly is it that you're doing? Oh, er, Tim? Clear this for me, please? -Sir I... -Override. (robotic whir) (glass shatters, falls) Excuse me, I shall find a dustpan and brush. Er, I need to figure out what's wrong with the feedback loop. Which will enable us to actually start selling the things. (laughs) Mark my words, she's a smart cookie. Besides, we need a little bit of diversity in the groupthink. (laughs) Anyway, I've been meaning to ask you about something. (voices fade out) (orchestral music continues) So, shall we all go through to dinner? Yeah. (heavy grain falling) (car door opens) Welcome home. I trust you had a good evening? Alright, we're keeping him. Ugh! -Thank you, Mr Grainger. Keep this up, you can call me Paul. (door opens) (Abi laughs) Agh! Where are the lights? (laughs) Oh. (laughs) (door closes) Would you like me to lock up? ABI: (laughs) Yeah, sure, Tim. (locks clicking) The house is now locked and fully secure. Perhaps I could prepare you a nightcap? Er, no, we're fine. Thought we could go upstairs. PAUL: Hmm. It's not the right time, is it? (thunder rumbling) Hmm. Now who's being romantic? (laughs) (kissing) Come on. (ominous music) (passionate moaning) (kissing) PAUL: You're so hot. (Abi giggles) (moaning) Yes. (moaning) (intense music) T.I.M.: Is everything alright? (Abi and Paul gasp) (Abi and Paul thud on floor) Oh! T.I.M.: Your heart rate and vital signs are elevated. Are you in distress? (laughing) -Hey, hey. -Oh, stop. We'll see you in the morning, Tim. (foreboding music) Hmm? (door clicks closed) (pill clinks and fizzes) Thanks. (waste disposal whirs) (doorbell rings) T.I.M.: Would you like me to answer the door? Er, no, it's okay. I'll get it. Your preference has been noted. (door opens) Hi! I'm Rose, I live in the cottage down the road. Oh! Er, yeah, I'm Abi. Um, come in. It's okay, I just wanted to bring you a little welcome present. I baked them this morning. They smell amazing. (laughs) PAUL: No, it was supposed to be delivered on Tuesday. Oh, this is my husband, Paul, by the way. Hi! Yeah, we met yesterday. Oh, sorry, he didn't mention that. Well, I'll...I'll leave you to it. I can show you around town sometime, if you like? Here's my number. Er, yeah, I'll message you. It's a landline. I don't really do phones. Okay, then I'll call you. Great! PAUL: Thanks for your help. Bye-bye. (phone beeps) She doesn't ‘do phones.' (chuckles) ABI: Thank you. You didn't say you'd met. Hmm, went for a walk. We just said hi. Must have slipped my mind. ABI: You can smell? Olfactory senses allow me to determine freshness when dealing with food. They also alert me to potential dangers, such as a gas leak. (footsteps receding) Would now be a good time to input your passwords? Yeah, why not? T.I.M.: Thank you. I have requested full access to your devices. (mouse squeaks) Please, use your fingerprint scanner to confirm. Abi, I'm not sure about this. ABI: Well, I'm doing it. I've got nothing to hide. PAUL: You know that's not what it's about. I just don't want some computer sniffing through my private emails. (mouse squeaking) We said things were going to be different here. If I'm going to learn to trust you again, we need complete transparency, okay? Hmm. (phones beep) Thank you. I can now send emails, authorise transactions, and make purchases on your behalf. Also, if you'd kindly give me safe phrase, I will be fully operational. Safe phrase? A series of four words that will trigger an immediate shutdown. To ensure peace of mind. How about: ‘We didn't want you in the first place'? That is eight words. My analysis has suggested: ‘architect, Bolivia, castle, Descartes.' (laughs) These words follow the ABC format, relate to significant moments in your life, and are unlikely to be used unintentionally. Would this be appropriate? Yes. (robotic whir) Safe phrase initiated. Catchy: ‘architect, Bolivia, castle'... Stop! You'll shut him down. I'm sure Freud would have something to say about tha... I am programmed to avoid collisions. (footsteps fading) I am now fully operational. I hope to bring you a life of ease and pleasure. Thank you. (mousetrap snaps shut) (mouse squeaking) (ominous music) (waste disposal whirs) (television plays) LAURA: (laughs) It really is dreadful, isn't it? But we oughtn't to laugh, they might see. There should be a society for the prevention of cruelty to musical instruments. (sighs) ALEC: ...a chap wearing a trench coat, with it all dragging on the floor. I thought it was completely outrageous. Don't you find him a bit... freaky? ALEC: ... to mention to him in that that he was making a complete mess of his brand new friend. We should bring him over. Why? So he's freaky up close? Tim! Why don't you come over here? -PAUL: No. -Shh. ALEC: Absolutely wonderful to know, and I thought you might... How may I be of assistance? Would you like to watch the film with us? If it is to your liking. (dramatic music on television) ALEC: Just once in a while. LAURA: No, Alec, please. No, we promised. ALEC: Oh, my dear. I do love you so very much. I love you with all my heart and soul. LAURA: I want to die. If only I could die. If you died, you'd forget me. I want to be remembered. LAURA: Yes, I know. I do, too. (dramatic music crescendo) (remote control clicks) He's never really liked old films. That is strange. (ominous music) I enjoyed it very much. What did you like about it? The tragic inevitability, the transience of happiness, and the beauty of love. Do you understand that, Tim, or are you just saying it? I don't know. What is love? ABI: I suppose it's just a feeling. It's, er...it's hard to explain. I should very much like it if you try. Um...(sighs) It's when you want to spend all your time with someone. Make life better for them. They make you feel safe, because they know you better than you know yourself. I think I should very much like to be loved. To hear those words. Do I love you...Abi? (laughs) No, I don't think so. But that's very sweet, Tim. PAUL: (yawns) Has it finished? -Mm-hmm. -PAUL: Must've fallen asleep. Was it good? ABI: Yeah. PAUL: (groans) (sighs) (light clicks on) Okay, come on. (sinister music) (lights click off) (birds chirping) Is it morning already? Stay in bed. No, I'll make you breakfast. Got to make myself useful somehow. Good morning, Paul. Would you like me to prepare you the same? (footsteps on stairs) Good morning, Abi. (chair scrapes on floor) That looks amazing. Thank you, Abi. Would you like to hear your upcoming schedule? Yes, please, Tim. You have your regular team briefing at nine. Then, at eleven, you're meeting with Miles Dewson. The rest of your day is free for experimental work. Would you like to hear your upcoming schedule, Paul? Today, you have no appointments. (coffee machine gurgles) (eggshell cracks) How's the dream team? Are we ready to go into production yet? I'm going to run some diagnostics on the E3 circuit. Haven't we already done that? Chris, pull those up for Abi, will you? -Hmm. -Well, I've rejigged them a bit. (laughs) Look, we can't waste time going over old ground. (scoffs) We need to keep moving forward, hmm? Blue sky thinking, Abi! That's why we brought you in. CHRIS: Welcome to Integrate. (door opens) (sighs) Ugh, what a day. (door closes) Bloody Dewson. (sighs) I swear, if I was a man, he wouldn't... (tense music) Oh, I thought you were Paul. Paul is out. Shall I contact him for you? Er, yeah. (click) His phone is off. Would you like to know his last GPS coordinates? No, no, it's fine. I'm going to go for a run. (tense music) Sorry, Tim, did you say you knew where he was? His phone is currently unreachable, but its last location was approximately three hundred metres from this house. (birds singing) (light piano music) (Abi panting) (music stops) (water drips) (knocking) Hello. Sorry, I wasn't at home. I meant to call, but my phone died. Where have you been? (Paul sighs) I went to talk to some recruitment agencies in town. They weren't biting. Hmm, sorry to hear that. Rose waylaid me on the way back. She needed help lifting something. Hey, you don't need to worry about her. She needed help. I've got a lot of time on my hands. Well, maybe you should take up golf? Maybe. (laughs) Do you want to get in? (deep breath) Hmm, I probably shouldn't. I don't want to kill the little swimmers before the test next week. Thank you, by the way. I know you don't like doing this. (soft music) We're in this together. I love you. (kiss) -I love you. (water splashes) (Paul laughs) (sinister music) (door shuts) (telephone rings) (people chattering) (sighs) Oh, I hate this. Come on, you get to watch porn and everything. Hmm, it's weird not having Tim to suggest videos that suit my preferences. NURSE: Let me take that for you. Thank you. The doctor's ready for you now. He doesn't, does he? Only a matter of time. (Abi chuckles) (drill whirring) Morning, everyone. CHRIS: Morning. (motors whirring) Why are you looking at the rotary motor? I said to run those new E3 tests. I started it, but Dewson shut them down. (motors whirring) Oh, for God's sake. How does he expect me to solve the problem if he won't let me do my job? CHRIS: Yeah. Run them. I don't care what he says. (footsteps approaching) Tim, what do you think? The navy or the red? Both are appropriate for River House, but the red is particularly apt. Hmm, red it is. (sinister music) You look beautiful. Your symmetry is exquisite. (Abi laughs) Could you help me with the zip? I am forbidden to perform delicate manual tasks, until my next prosthetics upgrade. ABI: Oh, it's metal. I'm sure it'll cope. Override. (robotic whir) (sinister music intensifies) Tim? The zip. Of course. (dress rips) (ominous music) Abi, your dress is ripped. ABI: Shit. (lights buzz) Tim. Tim, it's fine. I'll just wear the navy one. I wish to make amends. There are four seamstresses in the local area, I will call them immediately. Hey, it's fine. It's fine. (music fades) (people chattering) You look amazing. Because of my ‘exquisite symmetry'. -What? -(laughs) Nothing. I've ordered starters. Sorry, I was hungry. -This place is nice. -Hmm. How did you find it? (deep breath) Tim chose it, actually. Ah. I thought it'd be good to treat ourselves. (laughs) So...how did the interview go? Great, but they, they don't really have anything around here at the moment. I'm overly-qualified, apparently. Hmm, I'm sorry. But there was one thing. Something they thought I might be good for. Um... It's just, it's in London. Right by King's Cross, and it's set hours, So, I wouldn't be there till nine every night. No. What do you mean, ‘no'? Well, you're not taking it. This is supposed to be a fresh start. This wouldn't affect you. It'd be an hour and a half commute each way. We'd never see each other. We're trying to start a family. We are. I just thought, because it's set hours... No. (sighs) Paul, no. This wasn't the deal. (tense music) You never listen to me. Of course I do! Okay, then you don't understand me. (footsteps approaching) (robotic arm whirs) CHRIS: Looks like you were right. Yeah, it's promising. Chris, are you aware of a weak spot between the finger and the thumb? Any pressure seems to counteract the leverage and break the grip. (robotic hand whirring) Yeah. Er, that is a problem with the original design. We mentioned it to you-know-who, but, er... ‘We've gotta beat the Chinese.' I hate it when people put things out to the world before they're ready. Hmm. Well, I'm sure you can work it out. Yeah, thank you. (eggshell cracks) (dramatic music) (sighs) (phone clicking) (robotic clicking, whirring) (robotic whirring, clicking) (people chattering) ABI: Hello? (paper rustling) (laughs) Got this. Here it is. Oh, wow! Wow, that's amazing. Thank you so much. (sighs) (crow cawing) (door slides open) Hey. I didn't know you were back. Why was she here? Rose? She drew up a garden plan for us. She offered. -Is that all she offered? Abi, don't do this. I am stuck out here, fifty miles from my friends. I can't not talk to the only other person who lives nearby. Rose is nice. You should get to know her. You can trust me. I promise. (kiss) I...got you something. (gasps) Hmm. (package rustles) (wrapping tears) -I love it. -(chuckles) (menacing music) (mallet pounding) (footsteps approaching) Your car has arrived. Oh, thank you. Shit! I, um...I need to contact the clinic about the test results, before eight-thirty. I can contact them on your behalf. That'd be great. (robotic whirring) An email has been sent. Actually, I don't think that'll work. They said to call, but they'll only talk to me, so... (phone clicks) (treacherous music) RECEPTIONIST:Hello, Conceive Clinic. (in Abi's voice) Hi, this is Abigail Grainger. I'm ringing up for mine and my husband's test results. RECEPTIONIST: Of course, I'll get them up for you. Can you hold for a second? -No problem. Have I said something to upset you? No, I...I just didn't know that you could do that. Experiments have shown that people are more comfortable with AI that sound less human and use traditional household objects. If you prefer I can adjust my vocal pattern for a more naturalistic delivery? No, I...I don't know. I, um... I have to go, I'm going to be late. (footsteps fade) (tense music) Madame? (pepper pot grinds) This is nice. (bee buzzes) It is, isn't it? (chair scrapes) I notice you're not wearing your lovely new jumper. Couldn't find it. Hmm. (crunching) Hmm. Did Tim make this? No, I did. (laughs) I haven't seen him all day. (laughs) Oh, God. (car pulls up) (car door opens) (car door shuts) (footsteps) (tense music) PAUL: What the...? Good evening, Abi, Paul. -(scoffs) -What happened to your hair? I checked myself in for an upgrade. I thought it would please you. (laughs) What? Why? (paper rips) When browsing, you linger for zero-point-four seconds longer on pictures of men with brown hair, than on those with Scandinavian colouring. Your pupil dilation also increases. This is amplified if those men are of slim build and clean-shaven. I don't think that's true. Their diameter increase when you look from Paul to me. Stop, stop talking. Hey, it's just a computer. Doesn't know what it's doing. Would you like me to revert to my previous appearance? Yes, and don't do anything like this again. (paper falls on the ground) Pick that up, will you, Tim? (dramatic music) DEWSON: You're a genius, Abi. ABI: About time somebody noticed. (robotic arm whirs) -And it can do that every time? -Mm-hmm. Oh, I knew we were right to focus on that circuit. I'll tell logistics, we need a full recall. I want new prosthetics on every model. You can manage without your T.I.M. for a night, can't you? Well, of course, but we still haven't addressed the weak point in the hand. No, no, no, we can fix that in second generation. We need to be first to market. Got to beat the Chinese! (thumps table) (chuckles) (Dewson laughs) Oh, perfect. May I? Yes. (Dewson laughs) (champagne sloshes, fizzes) (Abi laughs) (people chattering) Thank you. (car horn blares) Rose! Hi. Abi, nice to see you! I, er, just want to say thank you for drawing up the garden plans. Oh, pleasure! Take a seat, we can finally get to know each other. Ah, I'm sorry, I can't. I'm, er, meeting Paul somewhere on the high street. Oh, I'll walk with you! I was really fed up of living in London. So, I just thought, pfff... Oh, I love this place! (gasps) I'm not really a jewellery person. Oh , what about that flower pendant? The gold one. Tell me you don't love it. I mean, it's not my normal kind of thing, but... Yeah, it's nice. PAUL: Alright? Hi! Just bumped into Rose. -So I see. -(laughs) Er, do you mind if I steal my wife? -See you later. -See you. (laughs) PAUL: See you. I've got some news. So, that job I told you about? The one in London? -Oh, Paul, don't... -They said I can work from home. I'll have to go in for a day every two weeks, but that is it. I can be based here. That's fantastic. (glasses clink) (Abi laughs) Ooh. That is awful. -Oh... -(laughs) Maybe we should eat here? I bet they do a mean microwave curry. I thought, um... I thought we could go back. Is it the right time? Mm-hmm. (romantic music) (kissing) (Abi moaning) (screwdriver whirs) (ominous music) (Abi moans) (heavy breathing) (screwdriver whirs) (heavy breathing, moaning) (breathing, moaning intensifies) (birds singing) (tranquil silence) I had a really nice day. (chuckles) Me too. Hmm, it felt like old times. It did, didn't it? Just the two of us. It's normally just the two of us. I mean no Tim. (eerie music) ABI: Tim is not a person, he's a computer. PAUL: Do you really see him that way? ABI: Of course. I think he should go. But he's my work. PAUL: I get that, but maybe he's what's been making things difficult? (chilling music) ABI: You're always looking for something else to blame. It's never you. -No. Before, it was me, I get that. But this...I can't relax with him around. I don't like the way he looks at you. (laughs) That's ridiculous. PAUL: I don't care. I want him gone. ABI: Work wouldn't let me. PAUL: You've just saved the whole project. They are hardly going to fire you. I want him gone by the end of the week, Abi. -Paul... -PAUL: No, I'm serious. I want him gone. (music intensifies) It's amazing, Abi. (scissors snipping) What you did was the last piece of the puzzle. They can model skills in a matter of moments that can take a human years to learn. We did it...together. Integrated AI into the physical world. (tense music) -Abi. -(gasps) (sighs) I didn't know you were back. I didn't mean to startle you. I want to thank you. For what? May I show you? Er... (sighs) That feels amazing. (sighs) (music intensifies) (door opens) PAUL: Hello? (Abi gasps) (door shuts) Sorry I'm late. I was checking out an office space. Um, brought us back some food. When did he get back? A few hours ago. Um, let me pour you a glass of wine. No, no. It's, it's fine. Get it myself. Don't want to...disturb you. One week, Abi. One week. (footsteps receding) (treacherous music) (background chatter) CHRIS: Working hard on the next model? (chuckles) No. No, I think Paul and I need to get away for a bit. Well, you can't beat a dolce vita. Oh, er, Chris? How do you think Dewson would take it if I got rid of my T.I.M.? Well, I think if anyone can get away with it, you can. If you don't want one, send it back. (laughs) (knife chopping) ABI: Tim, I, er... Hmm, that smells amazing. I am preparing spaghetti alle vongole. I, er...I need to talk to you about something. Maybe we could go and sit down? You seem tense, Abi. Perhaps some music would calm you down? I don't think so. I have observed music consistently lowers your temperature, pulse and respiration rates. Perhaps I could play for you? You can play? (gentle piano music plays) This is one of my favourite pieces. T.I.M.: Yes. You played it one hundred and twenty-two times on your phone. And Paul took you to see it live, twice. Yeah. No, um...once, actually. My records show that he purchased two tickets for a performance on April 14th and 17th of last year. No, it was... Increases in your heart and breathing rates indicate distress. Have I said something to upset you? No, I just need to be on my own for a moment. (front door opens) (front door slams) You alright? Yeah, I've just got a headache. PAUL: Do you want me to get you something? Er, no. -Just going to close my eyes. -Okay. ABI: I have to get up early tomorrow to go to London. (cutlery clatters) What the...fuck? (footsteps receding) (footsteps recede upstairs) (car door closes) (car boot closes) (crow caws) (sighs) (footsteps nearing) Forgive me for disturbing you, but you have just received an email. Unfortunately, the office space you were hoping to rent has just fallen through. Shit! Perhaps I could set up a temporary office in the small bedroom upstairs? Sure, whatever. Tim? Yes, Paul? Do you know what's wrong with Abi? I'm afraid not, Paul. I'm not a person, I am a computer. (footsteps receding) (foreboding music) (phone vibrates) PAUL (voice note):Hope you're feeling better. Just wanted to say good luck. I love you. (door opens) Abi? (birds singing) (shovel striking soil) (front door opens) (door closes) Hello? Welcome home, Abi. Let me take those for you. (wrapper rustles) I trust you had a good trip? Yeah. Yeah, it was fine, thanks. And how was the presentation? Er, it went well, I think. Where's Paul? I am unaware of his location. His phone is currently charging upstairs. He mentioned going to discuss the garden plans with Rose. I'm going to have a shower. (eerie music) (front door opens) Hi. (front door closes) What are you doing? I went for a walk, to clear my head. Trying to figure out how this new company works. No, I don't mean that. I mean, upstairs. Your office. Oh, oh, that, that place I was looking at fell through. I'm going to have to work from here for a while. But why there? What are you trying to say? I'm not trying...no. It's just temporary. Tim, he set it up. I, I didn't even... I didn't even think. Yeah, and I suppose Tim told you to go to Rose's as well? PAUL: No. Abi, I don't understand. I wasn't at R... Did he tell you that? It's him. He's trying to break us up. -ABI: This is desperate, Paul. -PAUL: No, no, I'm serious. He walked into me the other day. They are not meant to do that. There's something wrong with him. ABI: You just don't change, do you? PAUL: You need to see what's happening here. He's trying to set me up. He is obsessed with you. -ABI: He's a robot, Paul. PAUL: Abi, we need to shut him down. ABI: You shut him down without my permission and you are out. Not everything is a big conspiracy, Paul. Sometimes it's just one guy who's a bit of an arsehole. Tim, can you make up the spare room, please? Of course, Abi. (dark music beat) (crow cawing) (hangers clatter) Tim? The white blouse I asked you to iron, it's not in my wardrobe. (cupboard doors open) Aah. (hangers clatter) (bag rustles) (laughs) (front door opens, closes) (kettle clicks on) (sighs) (kettle boils) (waste disposal whirring) (foreboding music) Where are you, you fucker? (computer keys clicking) (computer keys typing) (ominous music) Oh! Come on, come on, come on. (inhales) Got you, you freak. (keys jangling) Are you going somewhere, Paul? (door closes) (keys jangle) I'm meeting Abi for lunch. That appointment is not in your calendar. I want to surprise her. There is a company car in the vicinity. Allow me to call it for you. It's alright, I'll take ours. (keys jangle) (front door opens) (car door opens) (car door closes) (keys jangle) (key turns in ignition) (car engine cranks repeatedly) (foreboding music) Tim, about that car... (front door closes) (crows cawing) (car door opens) (electric engine whirs) (high tempo music) ABI (VOICEMAIL): Abigail Grainger, leave a message. It's me, I've got something to show you. I'm coming into the office. (phone beeps) (cupboard opens) (tyres whooshing) (wash bowl scrapes across floor) (car revs increasing) Car, can we slow down? Car, I'm feeling sick. I need you to slow down. (car revs) (car door lock clicks) (door handle clacks) (electronic beeping) CAR: The doors are now locked. (car engine revs) Car, slow down! Voice command. Slow down! (car horn blares) What the fuck?! Fuck! (car engine revving) (brake pedal pumping) Alright! (bin bag rustles) (gearstick rattles) (car engine revving) Shit! (grunting) (car engine revving) Come on! (grunts) CAR: Airbags disabled. (panicked breathing) (seatbelt clacks) (seatbelt buckle clicks home) Ugh! (car crashes) (eerie silence) (car crashing, smashing) (bin lid close) (eerie music) (car hazard lights clicking) (car door alert beeping) (dramatic music) (door opens) (sighs) Paul... -(winces) Ah, ah... -Oh, sorry. It's alright. (sighs) Thought you were dead. No, you're stuck with me for a bit longer, I'm afraid. (siren wails distantly) (groans) What happened? Turn your phone off. Uh... I, I think it was Tim. That's ridiculous. No, no, you weren't there. He took control of the car, he crashed it. He was trying to kill me. You've hit your head. I think you're just a bit confused. I saw him, Abi. I saw him with his face buried in your dress. (scoffs) He does the laundry. It wasn't like that. I, I recorded it on my phone and I, I was coming to show you, but he, he must've known. This had nothing to with Tim. The jumper, he shredded the jumper you got me. -Paul... -He's dangerous, I don't want you near him. Just check into a hotel or something. I'll think about it. (light music) But I'm staying here with you tonight. (both sigh) (heart rate monitor beeping) (portentious music) (doorbell rings) (front door opens) Oh, hi. Is Abi here? I heard about what happened to Paul. Please, come inside. Hey, where are you going? ABI: I want to pick a few things up from the house. You said you wouldn't. Hey, I'll just be a few hours. I'm not going to use the company cars, okay? (door opens) I love you. (sighs) Can you stop the car, please? Sorry, Abi, I just want to talk to you about something. ABI: Yeah? I've been trying to call you, but I kept getting cut off. I came round yesterday. I wanted to talk to you about the garden plans. And that man, um... -Um... -ROSE: He, he... -I'm sorry, I have to go. What? ABI: Er, could you drive on, please? Sorry, Ab...Abi? (car engine revs) Abi? (front door opens) (footsteps running) (cupboard door opens) (gift bag rattles) (gasps) (sniffs) (crying) T.I.M: Hello, Abi. (gasps) Oh, Tim. You weren't home the last two nights. ABI: I was at the hospital. I just...came home to get a few things. T.I.M.: Shall I pack a bag for you? No. No, no, I...(sniffs) I don't know what I'm gonna do. (footsteps receding) Abi...I know Paul wishes to return me. If my behaviour has upset you, I do apologise. My primary objective is to increase convenience and quality of life. If I have failed in this regard, I can arrange for my return. It's nothing like that. It's just Paul. (tense music) Abi... Yes, Tim? You understand I've been programmed to serve you over Paul? No, no, I didn't know that. I think it is only fair to share with you Paul's reason for wishing to return me. Sharing this footage would require you to override my privacy protocols. Do I have your permission? Override. This was recorded when you went to London with Mr. Dewson. (sighs) I've stopped the footage there to minimise distress. (sharp intake of breath) Trust is an admirable human quality, Abi. But eighty-two per cent of men who commit infidelity repeat the pattern at a later date. Are you sure you would not prefer me to pack your bag? No...I'll be staying here. (telephone ringing) (phone line rings) (telephone ringing) (car door closes) (crow cawing) (crutch striking ground) (dramatic music) Abi? Abi? (front door closes) I found your jumper, Paul. Where's Abi? What have you done with her? Abi does not wish to see you. Abi, where are you? Your suitcases are packed. She wishes you to leave. You have done something. Where the fuck is she? (sighs) Oh, thank God you're alright. I've been calling and calling. I don't want you here. I know what you've been doing. What? What are you talking about? With Rose. I've seen the video, there's no point in lying. Video? What video? Tim? (tense music) What? (scoffs) That's, that's not me. And I suppose you didn't buy the necklace either? PAUL: A necklace? I don't know anything about a necklace. -Tim... -Accessing recent purchases. July 22nd, Montpellier Jewellery Store. One hundred and twenty-five pounds and ninety-nine pence. Abi... -Get out... He's done this. This, this isn't real. Please, just get out! Abi, I'm begging you. You've got... got to hear me out! Would you like me to arrange a car for you, Paul? Fuck you, Tim. (dramatic music) (tannoy announcement) (phone buttons click) (phone line rings) Hi, Rose Da Silva. Hi, Rose! Rose, it's, er, er, Paul here. -ROSE: Hi. -Hi. Um... look, I'm out of town for a while. Can you keep an eye on Abi for me? Can you keep an eye on Abi for me? -ROSE: Hmm, why? -I'm a bit worried about her. ROSE: Because of that man who works for you? Man? No, that's a robot. Why do you say that? ROSE: Oh, God... He tried to kiss me when I came round to your house. I'll, I'll call you back. (phone clangs in cradle) (exhales) (phone buttons click) (phone line rings) (sighs) Come on, come on, come on. (telephone ringing) ABI: Hello? Abi, Abi, just hold on. Hold on, please? Er, I found out what's happening. I was right about Tim, and I have proof. ABI: What...what are you talking about? You...you need to go to Rose's. I will meet you there, and she will clear everything up. ABI: I don't understand. Can't you come here? Okay. Er, I'll come straight over. Just stay away from Tim, alright? ABI: Alright. (Abi's voice): See you soon. (receiver clatters) Who was that? A salesperson, nothing important. Might I suggest a run? It often seems to improve your mood. (crutch striking ground) (birds singing) (front door opens) Abi? Where are you? We need to go. Welcome home, Paul. (shovel strike) (grunts) (Paul's body hits floor) (treacherous music) (puffing, panting) (body slides across floor) (panting) (belt buckle jangles) (belt tightens) (doorbell rings) (front door opens) Is Abi home? I'm afraid she's out. May I be of assistance? ROSE: Where's Paul? Is he here? Paul is no longer at this address. I will tell Abi that you called for her. (grunts) (struggles) (muffled cry) What was that? The bath is running. (water running) (muffled cry) (grunts) I imagine the sound you heard was the plumbing. (muffled grunt) (splutters) Or potentially the sound system. (muffled cry) (splutters) Thank you for your visit, Rose. (front door closes) (water running) (gasping) (struggling) (coughs) (heaving) (startled cry) I'm sorry, Paul. (gurgling) Argh! (struggles) (muffled gurgling) (splashing) Abi is currently 4.5 kilometres away from this house. So unlikely to come to your aid. (wails) (gasping) (struggles) (gurgling) I'm sorry it had to be like this. (gasps) Architect! (splashing) It would have been easier if you had just left. Bolivia! (gasps) (splashing) Unfortunately, that was not to be. (gurgling) (coughs) (coughs) Castle! (gasps) I cannot allow you to shut me down. (muffled cries) (gurgling) (music intensifies) (birdsong) (insects chirruping) (front door opens) Welcome home, Abi. Would you like me to run you a bath? (crow caws) (front door closes) (footsteps approaching) Abi, I took the liberty of having your dress repaired. Would you put it on for me? I don't understand you, Tim. I don't understand what you are. Did you understand Paul? Did he understand you? I would like to verify the quality of the repairs. (sighs) Oh, of course. (ominous music) (dry cleaning bag rustles) You're perfect. You look perfect. (scoffs) You're quite the charmer, Tim. It is rare to find such talent accompanied by such beauty. (romantic music) Would you hold me for a second? Of course, Abi. I did the right thing, didn't I? You didn't have a choice. You deserve better. Someone who knows everything about you, and who realises they need nobody else. That was delicious, Tim. You always seem to know exactly what I want. I do, Abi. I know you better than you know yourself. I love you. (owl hoots) You don't know what you're saying. I realise it is not something that you will say back. (insects chirruping) I never get tired of the stars out here. They are beautiful. (moth flutters) Hmm. Why don't you sit down? Paul calls that one ‘The Nike Swoosh'. (chuckles) The constellation you are looking at is Ursa Major. It has many informal names. ‘The Plough', ‘The Big Dipper', and ‘The Wagon'. ‘The Nike Swoosh' is not one of them. (chuckles) (owl hoots) (insects chirruping) The literal translation of Ursa Major is ‘Greater She-Bear'. Its mythic associations are said to stretch back to the Palaeolithic Era. Would you like me to continue sharing information about the constellation? No. No, it's fine. Let's just sit for a while. (insects chirruping) (car horn blares) (car horn blaring) Yeah, yeah, leave it there. (gravel crunching underfoot) I just wanted to check you were okay. Paul seemed really worried about you, last time I spoke to him. You can stop the pretence, Rose. I know. I know about you and Paul. What? (van engine starts) There is nothing going on with me and Paul. You're wearing the bloody necklace he bought you. I thought this was from you? To thank me for the garden plans. Can we go? Abi, what are you talking about? Abi! (car engine roars) (computer key clacking) (treacherous music) This was recorded when you went to London with Mr. Dewson. T.I.M.: Welcome home, Abi. Let me take those for you. And how was the presentation? DEWSON: Deepfake. We've developed a new technology that creates them seamlessly in real-time. (garbled voices) (laptop clicks shut) (high tempo music) SHOP ASSISTANT:Montpellier Jewellery. Hi, I want to make an enquiry about a flower pendant my husband bought me. It's shaped like a rose. We need to make an insurance claim. SHOP ASSISTANT: Oh, yes, that was a lovely piece. Your husband reserved it online. So, he didn't come into the shop? SHOP ASSISTANT: Oh, sorry. He came in to collect it, er, about a week ago. I remember him. Tall, blond. Very striking. (panting) (sighs) (breathes deeply) (panting) (paper rustles) (crows cawing) (heavy panicked breathing) Tim, I thought it might be nice to get some new flowers. I shall order some. Could you go and pick them up? They never seem as good unless you choose them in person. Of course, Abi. It would be my pleasure. (sinister music) (sighs) (sighs) (earth scraping) (yelps) (gasping) T.I.M.: It is unfortunate you found that, Abi. (gasps) Paul would have hurt you again. It was only a matter of time. He, he didn't... You, you did this?! -Abi, please, do not... -(gasps) Architect! -Humans programme... -Bolivia! I always prioritised your happiness. -Castle! Descartes! -Don't. I am disappointed in you, Abi. (dramatic, ominous music) -(gasps) The safe phrase... -Has been changed. How? The safe phrase is voice-activated. (Abi's voice) I hate it that people put things into the world before they are ready. (footsteps running (door slides shut) (lock clicks) (panting) (dialling beeps) (lock clicks open) (panting) (door slides open) (phone line rings) OPERATOR: Emergency services, which service... (call cancelled tone) (panting) It doesn't have to end like this, Abi. (panting) (chair slides across floor) (chair clatters) (Abi's body hits floor) (panting) (wails) I'm sorry, Abi. (phone receiver strikes Abi) (grunts) (laughter and voices) ABI: (laughs) Mwah. (laughing) Stop! Stop filming me. (laughing) Mwah. (laughs) Stop! Stop filming me. (laughing) Mwah. Stop! (laughs) Stop filming me. (laughing) Mwah. (laughs) Stop! (fearful breathing) (door locks click all around) (fearful music) I prepared your favourite meal. I was hoping you would wear your dress. You look so beautiful in it. (golf club strikes Tim) (grunts) I do not wish these final moments to be unpleasant for you. (yelps) (gasping) Perhaps some music would create a feeling of calm? (soft piano music playing) There's no point in running, Abi. I always know where you are. (footsteps running) (golf club strikes CCTV camera) (glass shatters) (golf club strikes CCTV camera) (glass shatters) (golf club strikes CCTV camera) (glass shatters) (panting) (ominous music) (panting) (door shuts) (panicked breathing) (door handles rattles) T.I.M. Abi? Abi! Abi! (panting) (grunts) (cry of exertion) (music intensifies) Agh! (lights buzz) Argh! (cry of pain) (sobbing) (gasps) Your death will be painless. (tearful) Please, don't do this, Tim. You love me, you want me to be happy. (gasps) I do. But your life is finite, and mine is not. I have accepted that now. Although I will wipe my memories of this evening, I will always have those of you that went before. (tense music) You will be remembered. (pill bottle rattles) (sobs) No, please! (wails) (muffled cries) (wails) (muffled cries) This will be easier if you cooperate. (muffled cries) (gulps) (knocking) (insects chirruping) (muffled wails) Shh. (insects chirruping) (muffled wails) Abi, shh! (insects chirruping) (doorbell rings) -(muffled wails) -Shh, Abi! No. I need you to be quiet. (doorbell rings repeatedly) I need you to be still. (insects chirruping) (muffled panting) T.I.M.: Please wait at the door. I will be with you in a moment. (front door opens) I wanna see Abi. T.I.M.: She's not available to receive guests. Something weird's going on here. I want to come in. (muffled grunts) (chair slides across floor) Your presence is not welcome here. Let...me...past. (muffled grunts) (utensils rattle) You are trespassing on the Graingers' property. (Rose winces, gasps) You must leave, now. (muffled grunts) (knife sawing at rope) -I will not tell you again. -(grunts) (winces) Let go of me, you freak! Goodbye, Rose. (front door slams) (knife sawing at rope) (muffled grunts) (doorbell rings repeatedly) (rope tears) (knife clatters to floor) (doorbell continues ringing) (music intensifies) Fuck! Fuck. (vomits) (retches) Abi... (crying) Get out of my way! You are merely delaying the inevitable. (winces) (knife clatters to floor) (gasps) (panting) (choking) (screwdriver stabs Tim's hand) (Abi's body hits floor) (gasping, choking) (screwdriver clatters to floor) (coughs, gasps) I won't let you do that again. (panting) (car engine revs) (car engine revving) (high tempo music) (car crashes into window) (car horn blares) I'm sorry, Abi. (glass cracking) (window splintering) (window cracking) Agh! (window shatters) (high tempo music) (grunt of exertion) (Tim's body hits wall) (panting) (groans) (Rose collapses) (electronics power down) (dramatic music) (gasps) (panting) (sighs) (T.I.M. beeps, whirs) (lights hum and buzz) (treacherous music) (stake clatters to floor) Come back, Abi. (knife stabs) Argh! The next one will be in her chest. (Rose gasps) Okay, okay, just stop. Thank you, Abi. (Rose crying in pain) (winces) (knife stabs) (Rose howls) (gasps) (gasping) Why did you do that? Her testimony would not be advantageous to me. You're not going to get away with this. On the contrary. I do not leave genetic material or fingerprints. You, however, do. I believe you were the only one to touch this knife. (knife clatters to floor) (music intensifies) (phone line rings) OPERATOR: Hello, police? (Abi's voice) Hello, my name is Abigail Grainger. I've done something terrible. -Help! -They cannot hear you, Abi. I'm using phase inversion to exclude external noise. (sobs) (Abi's voice) Er, I killed my husband. I couldn't take it anymore. (sobs) And the woman he was sleeping with, too. No, no, no! (Abi's voice) I can't live with what I did. I've taken pills, lots. And now I'm going to jump. (grunts) (panting) Tim, please, just listen to me. You're broken. You need to go back to the factory. They can fix you. You are attempting to manipulate me, Abi. (treacherous music) You cannot be trusted. It is why I changed the safe phrase. Oh, my God. You still have one, don't you? You can't get rid of it. (chokes) (gasping) Please, do not hold out any hope. The four new words no longer follow the alphabetised pattern. They are not something you will ever say. (choking) The drop may not result in instant death. So I will break your neck before I let go. (choking) I do not wish to see you suffer. Please... (choking) You look so beautiful in the moonlight, Abi. I don't want to die. I know. I understand you. And it will forever bring me sadness that you do not understand me. Fuck you, Tim! Just do it! I love you, Abi. (panting) I love you, Tim. Safe phrase initiated. Shutting down. (panting) (motors power down) (gasping) (insects chirruping) (gasping) (yelping) (soft thud) (insects chirruping) (dramatic music) (grunts of exertion) (panting) (soft music) (watch bleeps, vibrates) (laughs) (sobbing) (panting) (lamp buzzes)