Transcript for Knight Club (2001) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (rock music) ♫ Hear my tale of temptation and fame ♫ My true story about the guardians of the game ♫ They're the masters of manipulation ♫ Intimidation ♫ Ruthless elimination ♫ Crack your skull boy, make you bleed in a fight ♫ 'Cause they need the bad ass knights of the night ♫ I'm talkin' Hollywood baby ♫ Sex, drugs, and personality ♫ Valhalla ♫ Where reality don't make no sense ♫ A city that takes pride in corrupting innocence ♫ Every bitch wants to be the star on the scene ♫ And all the gay boys wanna be every girl's dream ♫ Daily struggles for the blood of human beings ♫ Where being a movie star ain't what it seems ♫ I'm talkin' Hollywood, baby ♫ Sex, drugs, and personality ♫ You sell your soul for a role in the big show ♫ But all you get is a coroner's tag on your big toe ♫ Think twice about the price you'll pay ♫ About the faith, the morals ♫ That are so easy to betray ♫ The power of personal redemption's what you need ♫ Or else all you'll pay for is the sins and your greed ♫ I'm talkin' Hollywood baby ♫ Sex, drugs, and personality ♫ Now you ask why's it all gotta end like this ♫ 'Cause we both know it's for the best - [Gary] Why does it have to end like this? - We both know it's for the best. I pay the rent, I... Put food on the table. All you do is sit around all day and watch TV. - I told you, there is no jobs out there for... (laughing) I forgot my line. - The scene was really starting to flow, don't you think, class? (people clapping) - I'm sorry, I don't know what... - And your emotion still seems a bit rehearsed, Gary. Remember your method: search deep within yourself for the true passion of the moment. That's all for tonight, class. Jesse, Derek, you'll do your scene on Thursday. - Right on. - Cool. - Remember everybody: we struggle to succeed in a bullshit business. - [All] So be the best at bullshit. (laughing) - Be well everyone. (people talking) (upbeat salsa music) - I know, I know, but now get this: two days after I sign with this other acting agency, they get me an audition for that new soap, a Tangled Web. - You got another agent? I can't even get one agent to look at me. - You should change your name. I mean, seriously. Jesse Telesco. It sounds too Hispanic. - That's because I am Hispanic, Derek. - (chuckling) Whatever. Listen, you think that Tom Cruise would be where he is today if his name was still Thomas Mapother IV? I mean, come on. - I change my name every six months. You know, and Texas towns are really hot right now, like, Jesse Dallas or Jesse Amarillo. Jess Las Vegas. Ooo, no I like that one. Jesse Las Vegas. - Brittany. I don't know how you can eat all those sweets and still keep that gorgeous figure. (chuckling) - I just wanted to say that you look absolutely ravishing tonight. - [Waitress] You guys want anything else? - We're good. - That woman is cold as ice. - Anybody got a light? - Yeah, uh... I didn't know you smoked, Derek. - I don't. Well, that's my cue. I got producer callback tomorrow, see ya. - Hey Brittany, do you need a ride? - No. I think Derek's goin' my way. Aren't you Derek? - Well I am now. Come on. See ya. - Man. I bet you that guy gets laid every night. - (chuckling) Yeah, enough for the both of us. Hey, let's go down to the Boulevard and crash some clubs, huh? - Can't, man. I start my job at Infiniti tonight. - You got a job at Infiniti? Dude, that's the hottest fuckin' night club in town. - I'm just parking cars. Moco runs the valet service there. Want me to see if I can get you on? - No, no. I still got a couple months left on my unemployment checks, dude. - Alright, cool. Well look, give me a shot later. - Alright, man. Be good, dog. Great. (rock music) What? What? (rock music) - You on the list? I said, are you on the guest list? - You're kidding me, right? Don't you know who the hell I am? - Hey, asshole. - My uncle Tony owns this place, alright, and he's gonna be pissed when he finds out that his nephew, Bertram, was out on the sidewalk because some dumb ass doorman won't let him in. - Hey, relax. I didn't know Tony was your uncle. Come on in. Hey! Do me a favor, will ya: tell Tony I need to talk to him. - Yeah, sure. You struggle to succeed in a bullshit business: so be the best at bullshit. (rock music) ♫ Somebody, somebody, somebody, somebody ♫ Let it die ♫ But it still becomes a new disease ♫ Is this all worth what this has done to me ♫ Watered down my senses and turned them on me ♫ Fuck morality and everything I know ♫ If I didn't hate this then I couldn't cope ♫ Impersonate myself for what I used to be ♫ Denial is all that's left now ♫ Nobody, nobody, nobody, nobody ♫ Changed my mind ♫ And it leads me to a new disease ♫ Somebody, somebody, somebody, somebody ♫ Let it die ♫ But it still becomes a new disease ♫ Nobody, nobody, nobody, nobody ♫ Changed my mind ♫ And it leads me to a new disease - Hook up with Tony yet? - Uh, no. No, not yet. - He'll be up in his office. ♫ Seething in my head ♫ I'm suffering instead ♫ I can't remember why this meant so much to me ♫ Did I ever want this ♫ It's all I could've been, it's all I would've been doubt ♫ Did I ever want this ♫ It's all I could've been, it's all I would've been ♫ Seething in my head ♫ I'm suffering instead ♫ I can't remember why this meant so much - [Tony] How the fuck am I supposed to run a night club with out a security staff? - [Dirk] My guys won't work for 60 bucks a night, Tony. (yelling) Because you pay a bullshit 60 bucks. - Ah, Jesus Christ. Hey, what the fuck do you want? - [Gary] I was just... - Tell me, you wanna earn 60 dollars tonight, cash, under the table. - I wanna earn 60 dollars cash tonight, under the table. - Dirk. Here's your boss. - What, this scrawny guy, Tony? Give me a fucking break, he's got no size. - He's a 60 dollar body. Find him a shirt, get him a place on the floor. ♫ But it still becomes a new disease - How you doin'? ♫ But it still becomes a new disease (rock music) - T-Dog, how goes it? - Oh, man, it's good, it's good. You know, I mean, every is fine. (yelling) - Where you goin'? - Let go of me. (slapping) - Oooo. - Hey, hey, relax, you guys. - Hey, fuck off. (hitting) - [Girl] Moron! - And let that be a lesson. (yelling) (rock music stopping) Oh shit. Hey dude, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to-- (hitting) - Rule number one: never touch a bouncer. Nice. (rock music) ♫ Come on You all should've seen that punk ass motherfucker go flying through the air, man. Ay yo, Gary, what was that move you put on him? What was that, some kung fu shit? - Yeah, yeah. - Good work. Go make yourself tea, T-Dog. - [T-Dog] No sweat. - Not bad. For a skinny little shit, you've got some good moves. I could use another guy here on Fridays and Saturdays, you available? - Yeah, sure. (gun shot) - He piss himself? - Uh uh. - You got a lot to learn. Learn it correctly, this town is yours. Let's get a bite to eat, boys. Gary, feel free to join us. (rock music) - [Gary] Guys, we might eat somewhere else. It's gonna be like an hour to get a table around here. - Are you kiddin'? Dirk's got a permanent table at every restaurant in town. But he likes this place best. (jazz music) - How's everybody? - It's good. (jazz music) - Gentlemen. - Hiya, Dirk. - Sit. (chuckling) - This is my cousin Cindy. Um, she's from Pennsylvania, but she's spending the summer with me, so I want to take her to The Play Room on Saturday, you know? I mean, she's 22 but she totally forgot her ID in Pennsylvania. Okay, okay, so she's only 19, but... Alright, okay, she's 17, but she totally looks 21. - All my friends back home in Pennsylvania, they tell me I totally look 21. - Please, Dirk, could you let her in? Just this once? - Alright, come by my house in an hour. I'm sure I've got some free passes laying around my bedroom somewhere. - Oh. (squealing) - Hey, what are those things, anyway? - Five pound steel strips. Motherfucker messes with me? Bang! Next six months, he's suckin' his meals through a straw. So where do you train? - Train? - Yeah, that kung fu shit you do. I know you belong to a dojo somewhere, right? Uh, yeah. Yeah, you know I... You know, I mostly just train out of my house now. (yelling) You don't want any of this. (yelling) (phone line dialing) - [Woman] Hi, this is Paige. Please leave your name, number, and a brief message, and I'll get back to you as soon as possible. If this is Brent, I got the roses. They're lovely. I'll see you tonight. (machine beeps) - Who the hell is Brent? (upbeat pop music) - I can't believe Derek got a job on The Tangled Web. - Mhm, NTC signed him to a three month contract. - Wow. You're kidding me? A three month contract? That guy can't even act. I mean, uh, good for him. - Our Derek, a hunk on The Tangled Web. - Oh, shit. I'm late for work, man. - [Jesse] You got a job? - Yeah, yeah. I got a job as a bouncer at The Play Room. - Hey. - Wow. - Why don't you guys come down tonight? You'll be my guests. - Dude, don't forget, we're supposed to hit some agencies tomorrow. We gotta get ourselves an acting agent, bro. - Alright. Be good, my brotha. - You go ahead, bro. I'm gonna keep looking for a parking spot. - Excuse me. I have an appointment with Mr. Aaron to represent me as an actor, but, I got a phone call from my wife and her water broke, and I gotta get to the hospital, so, if you could give those to Mr. Aaron, and tell him I'll let him be my agent for about six months or so and we'll see how things go, that would be great, thank you. - That was good. Not original. But good. Next time, try wearing a wedding ring. - Right. Look, I'm sorry. It's just, I have tried every acting agency in town, and, if someone would just give me the chance... - So, Gary Greco, where you from? - A little old town in the heart of Wyoming. - Hm, now you're in Hollywood. That's a big move. - Sometimes it feels like a big mistake. - Uh oh. That sounds like there's a girl involved. - Same old sad story, huh? Guy moves to the big city with his high school sweetheart and she dumps him for some sugar daddy driving a Ferrari. - Honey, of course you can deduct your breast implants as a business expense. That's why it's called a boob job, okay? Hey, I know you. From the other night. You work at The Play Room, right? - Yeah, yeah. I'm a bouncer there. - Oh, is that a fact? Huh. And an actor, too. You got an agent? - No, not yet. - You know what, I think I can help you out. - That would be great, Mr. Aaron. You won't be disappointed, I'm telling you, I can-- - Sure, sure. Listen, Gary. I'm thinking of swinging down this weekend to The Play Room. Are you workin'? - Yeah, yeah. I'm there every weekend. (laughing) Oh, that's great. I'm thinkin' of bringin' down a couple of clients, you know, maybe five. Or eight? - Come on down, VIP all the way Mr. Aaron. Be my guest. Thank you. - Yeah, yeah. - This is, oh man. Thank you, you guys. - No problem. Hey, you know, this is a great picture. Jesus. You get me a cup of coffee? I like it black. - [Gary] Hey Jesse! - Damn, man. I had to drive around the block 10 times before I found a parking spot. - Dude, I got an agent. - No shit. Hey, what'd he say about me? You didn't even mention me? - Well, it just, it... Jesse, it happened so fast. - Man, let's go back up there and introduce me to him. - Whoa, Jess. Hey, um. Maybe next time. I just don't wanna push my luck. - I had to park the damn car. - I know, man. Look, I promise I'll bring you back in a few days and you can meet him. Come on, let's grab a beer and celebrate, huh? - [Jesse] Fuck. - Hey, let's stop by Paige's store first, man. I want to tell her the news. - Ah, Gary. Get over her, man. It's been six months, bro. You gotta move on from that girl. - I just wanna stop by, alright? - And tell her you got an agent? See if she'll take you back? Get over her bro. - And who the hell are you to tell me about women, anyway? When's the last time you got laid? Oh yeah, you wanna bone Brittany but that bimbo won't give you the time of day, and why is that? Because she's got the hots for Derek. And why does she have the hots for Derek? Because he's a working actor and you, my friend, are a parking valet. (chuckles) Who happens to need a push, again. Come on, Jess. You can afford a better car than the one you got. Why don't you use some of that tip money from Infiniti, man? - Yeah, right. All those rich guys that go to Infiniti? They think that just allowing me to park the Porsche is enough for a tip. People are stupid to let valet guys park their cars. When the lot is full, we park it on the street wherever we find a spot. Handicap stalls, red zones, right next to a fire hydrant. Bro, I'll park the car in the ocean if I have to. Hey, 'sup Paige? - Hey Jesse. Hey Gary. - Hey. (chuckles) Not too busy in here today, huh? Eh, Labor Day weekend and all, I guess everyone's at the beach. - Isn't that the guy from The Play Room? - So, how are your folks doin'? - They're good. How's your mom? - Oh, she's good. She asks about you all the time. - Well, be sure to say hello for me. - Yeah. Hey, guess what, Paige? I got an agent. Yeah, he took one look at my head shot and signed me on the spot, he-- - Jesse, shoes, couch, off, now, thank you. - Anyhow, Paige, I really, I think this guy likes me a lot and I got a good feeling. I think things are just gonna kind of-- - Gary, that's great. I'm really happy for you, but, I got a lot of work to do. - Yeah, sure. Hey, you know, maybe we could get together, you know, and have some lunch. Maybe go to a movie, dinner? - Gary. Gary, please. Stop asking, you already know what my answer is. - Oh, by the way, who's Brent? Is he another sugar daddy or... - I knew that was you. Fifteen hang ups on my answering machine? You know if you don't stop-- - Hey, don't you work at The Play Room? - Uh, yeah. (chuckling) - Well maybe we'll see you again this weekend? - (Gary) That would be great. - Great butt. (laughing) - So, yeah, I guess I'll just see ya around then, Paige. - Bye Jesse. - He took one look at my head shot and said, "kid, you are gonna be a star." (chuckling) Can you believe that, ma? Your son is on his way to fame and fortune. - [Woman] That's nice, dear. How's Paige? Do you still see her? - Yeah, ma, she's fine. - [Woman] Such a shame the two of you broke up. You know, maybe you'll work things out. Get back together again. Honey, do you need anything? Money? - Ma, I'm fine, okay. I got a job. - [Woman] Oh, good for you. Doing what? - I... Work at a grocery store. (pop music) - Hey, Dirk, you wanted to see me? - Yeah. Remember this asshole? - Hey, man, I'm really sorry about the other night, I was drunk, but I wanted to apologize. - Alright, here's what we're gonna do you baldheaded dumb ass. You come back next Saturday, you can party. You behave yourself, you can come back again, and so on and so on. You get the picture? But you give me trouble again, Gary's gonna kick your ass out the door and you stay gone from this club forever. Understood? - Yes, sir, thank you, sir. Thanks, man. - Hey. Don't thank me. Just don't make me kick your ass again. My blood's already startin' to boil, so get out of my sight. Dirk, you're not gonna let that guy back in here, are ya? - Gary, for a guy like that, this club is his whole life, alright? It's all he lives for. You take that away from him, you just made an enemy. You handle the situation this way, the guy's so grateful, he's now our best friend. Understand? - Yeah. - [Brittany] Gary. - You know that bimbo? - Yeah, she's in my acting class. - Hey, Brittany, this is-- - Can we get in? - Ladies, consider yourself VIP. There you go, have a nice time. - How you doin'? - Get used to it, Gary. This job does that to women. (chuckling) (pop music) - Hey, brah. - What, you got a problem? - No, man. I'm just taking a look around. Gary, you know, Dirk doesn't really like it when we leave our posts. You know, maybe you should go back. - Hey. Have you seen three really hot chicks, and one of 'em's a... (pop music) - Hey, Gary. - God dammit, Gary, when I assign you a position, you stay there. Your my eyes and ears for that part of the club. If you leave your post and trouble breaks out there, I got no chance of shuttin' down the problem before it gets out of hand, do you understand what I'm sayin'? I assign you guys specific locations inside a club because those are the spots where problems usually occur. On any given night, we're outnumbered 200 to one. And it only takes an instant for a fight to turn into a riot. If that happens, if we find ourselves in a riot situation, we are in serious fuckin' trouble, do you understand? Now if I have to-- - I ain't payin' for the fuckin' food. I waited an hour to get my food, and when it finally did arrive it was fuckin' cold. - T-Dog. You, stay. - You expect me to pay for it? You should fuckin' pay me. - You wanna know why I take the time to explain things to you, Gary, hm? Because you seem like a bright guy. You know, when you talk to people, you do it with a certain flair. In this business, big, stupid muscle heads are a dime a dozen. - You should give the money-- - But somebody who can use his brains instead of his fists, somebody who can talk a situation down, is priceless. And my organization is growing, fast. I can use smart people. But I got no use for irresponsible people who can't follow orders, understand? - Thanks, guys. - Alright, I'm working this special gig on Labor Day. Private little party. I'm working the door myself. I think I'll let you work it with me. (pop music) - Oh, hey. Any trouble finding the place? - What, are you kidding me? I just followed the noise. Party's in full swing, huh? - Yeah, go in and take a look around. Get familiar with the layout of the building. - A little thin on babes so far, huh? - Yeah, somethin' like that. ♫ Do you love me ♫ If we just did for sex ♫ Let me know ♫ Do you love me ♫ If we're not in it for love ♫ Tell me so ♫ You got me runnin' - Hey gorgeous. Where you goin' man? Hey come on, when do you get off of work? - Hey, that is a fag party in there. - No shit, sweetheart. - Why don't you say it a little louder, Gary, I don't think the boys in the back heard you. - You never told me this was a party for those kind of people. - It's the best gig in town. These boys just wanna have fun. No fights, no hassles. Six hours of work and you get 300 bucks. - I get $300 for this? - You get $100 up front, and then I kick you down some of my cut from the door. - What do you mean you take a cut from the-- - We're on the guest list, Wilson. - I'm sorry, I don't see your name. - It's right there, near the bottom. - There it is. My apologies. Wilson, party of... - Three. - Three. Have a good time, gentlemen. (pop music) - So I take it that's a cut from the door. - That, my quick learning friend, is a dead president's hand shake. And Mr. Jackson happens to be my favorite. Alright, listen, watch the door while I gotta take a piss, alright? This clicker is for the ins, this one's for the outs. We're way over capacity, so if the Fire marshal shows up, add a 100 clicks to the outs. - Hold on, come on, Dirk. How do I know who the Fire marshal is? - Well the big red fire trucks that he brings with him are usually a dead giveaway. Would you relax, man? This area isn't even zoned. Just don't let anybody in 'til I get back. - [Man] Hi, sweet cheeks. Stop being bad. (clears throat) (pop music) - Hi, handsome. - [Woman] We're on the list. - Uh, Dirk has the guest list. But he'll be back in a minute, but I can't let anyone in. - Excuse me? We were invited here by the promoter of the party. So you better get off-- - Dolores. You heard him. I don't mind. Not with a big boy like this to keep me company. What's your name, big, strong boy? - Uh, Gary. - Oh, hi, Uh, Gary. - Dolores, Carrington, how are you ladies? - This kid won't let us in, Dirk. - Really? Is that true, Gary? - You said not to let anybody in. - Indeed I did. He follows orders, I like that. Ladies, have a good time. (whistling) - [Man] So when do the rest of us girls get in? - Soon, okay, don't get your panties in a wad. You're doin' a good job, bro. By the way, I think Carrington likes you. - (chuckles) Those chicks? Come on man, they're-- - Lesbians? Fag hags. Rich broads, usually married. They like these kind of parties. They can dance, they can cut loose and not get hassled, 'cause they know these guys aren't trying to get into their panties, you understand? Alright. Get in there and take it like a man. ♫ Do you love me ♫ If we just did it for sex ♫ Let me know ♫ Do you love me ♫ If we're not in it for love ♫ Then tell me so ♫ Do you love me ♫ If we just did it for sex ♫ Let me know - Derek? Hey, Derek! Oh my god. ♫ Turn around ♫ Hey ♫ Turn around yeah ♫ Oh baby ♫ Yeah ♫ Turn around, love me down ♫ Turn around baby ♫ Oh ♫ Turn it 'round, on the ground (bells ringing) Shit. (gate opening) Hey, Jess, I hate to be a pain, bro, but can you give me a ride to work? My car's still in the shop. - [Jesse] I can give you a ride back here to Infiniti. - Yeah, dude, that would be great. That way I can walk back to The Play Room, grab my car later. - [Jesse] See you in fifteen. - Whoa, whoa, you know what, make it 25. I gotta grab a shower. - [Jesse] Cool. - Alright. (car horn honking) Dude. Where the hell did you get that? - I'm parkin' it. Come on. - Oh, that is sweet. (laughing) Oh, man. - So, how much to fix your car? - You don't wanna know. (rock music) What the hell we stoppin' for? - Found it in the ash tray. - Hey, come on, Jesse, man. You know I don't do drugs. - Gary, get real, bro. It's half a roach. It's not gonna kill ya. - You're crazy, man. (coughing) Hey come on, man, I gotta get to work. - Dude, don't worry about it. In this car, it'll get you there in no time, bro. Hey. Last week, I gave Brittany a ride in a Mercedes 450SL. - Wow. - Yeah. I don't know what it is about that girl, but just looking at her makes my loins ache. I can't even get a kiss out of her. - Man, all of a sudden I'm fuckin' starvin'. - I don't believe it. - I do. - No, no man, look. Check out Derek. He's got his own TV show now. I bet you that guy can't even count the number of women he's laid. (laughing) - I'll bet he can. (laughing) - Don't start trippin' on me bro. I'm taking you to work. (pop music) - Gary. Yeah. Consider it done. I'll be there tomorrow with two of my best men. It's a pleasure doing business with you, Tobias. Slimey fuckin' weasel. You're late. - Yeah, I'm sorry, Dirk. I left my car at the-- - Yeah, listen, I just booked a new account. Local bar, four nights a week. Told the owner I'd bring two of my best men down tomorrow and maybe train a new doorman. You available? - Yeah. (yelling) - [Man] You piece of shit. You piece of shit. (kicking) (grunting) - This place sucks, Dirk. I've already been in three fights tonight. There's no more customers to even throw out of the place. - Good. A few more nights like this and the scum will know better to come around here anymore. (kicking) (grunting) - You got a problem here? - No problem, officer, just... Too much to drink. We'll keep an eye on him for ya. - Man, I hate this place. I wish I was back at The Play Room. I mean, what about Infiniti, Dirk? Why don't you try and get that account, man? - Don't you ever mention that fuckin' place to me again, you hear me? I had that gig once. Just a fuckin' front for drug money. The fuckin' Russian mafia. Krukov, the owner, got some of my guys strung out on smack. One of the guys overdosed. I see Krukrov, I'm gonna bury him in a hole so deep, don't nobody but God ever see him again, you hear me? - [Gary] Yeah. - Don't you ever, don't you ever mention Infiniti or Krukov to me again. - I'm sorry, Dirk. I didn't know that there was any bad blood there. (coughing) (coughing) (groaning) - Gary? The guy outside said it was okay to come in. - Hi, yeah. Come on in, grab a seat. - Thanks. - Can I get you something to drink? - Yeah, I'll have a beer. - Uh, Lady Di. Could I get a beer and a diet soda, please? - Sure. - Thanks. So, do I have some auditions coming up? You know, I haven't heard from Mr. Aaron except for when he was down at The Play Room with 20 of his friends who wanna get in for free. - [Diane] Here you go. - Thanks. Gary, that's what I wanted to talk to you about. Aaron isn't with the agency anymore. He was fired. - Well what about my auditions? - Gary, Aaron never sent your pictures out. - He never tried to get me an audition? Not one? - I'm sorry I had to tell you that, Gary. - Son of a bitch. - But I wanted to tell you because I'm leaving, too. I'm starting my own agency. Eh, it won't be much at first, just a couple of folding chairs and some telephones. And I'd like to represent you. I know, this is a lot to absorb right now. So, think about it? Let me know what you wanna do. - That fuckin' Aaron never sent me out once? - Are you dumb or just stupid? Turn your happy ass-- - How tough do you feel now, tough guy? - Look in my eyes. Do you see fear? No, you don't. Because looking at me is like lookin' in a mirror, brother. - I ain't your fuckin' brother. - Yes you are, man. You and me, we're the same. You're holdin' a gun to my nuts for every cop that beat you. For every rich prick that laughed at you. For every cigarette your step father snuffed out on your stomach. We're the same, me and you. The only difference, is I found a way to live with my violence. And you're still lookin' to make somebody pay for yours. You wanna kill me? Pull the fuckin' trigger. Or just... Walk away. - Damn, you won't believe what just fuckin' happened to me. - Why don't you do it for a minute will you, Gar? (slow, tense music) Gar? I think you're ready to become a doorman. (pop music) - [Man] I'm on the guest list. Mr. Jackson. - How you doing tonight, just the two of you? Alright, go on in, have a good time. Wow. Ladies, is it cold out or are you just happy to see me? Well I'll take that as a yes either way, come on in. How you doin', baby? Hey. Whoo, how you doin'? - You should've had them show you their tits. - Well I guess you should've been at my house last night then, huh? - I couldn't. I was down here waiting in line, geez. - Funny man, front of the line. How you doin'? - Hi, hi. - What's your name? - Robert. - Robert, well it's-- - [Man On Radio] Ronnie, Dan, I need backup backstage. T-Dog, you better get in here. - Does that mean I get in? - Nah, I just wanted you to come to the front of the line so I could shake your hand. Ah, come on Robert, I'm just kidding, come on-- - [Man On Radio] It's going down. It's going down. - Shit. No one gets in. ♫ Oh ♫ Never never loved ya baby (fighting) (hitting) (grunting) (tazer buzzing) T-Dog, what the hell? (hitting) (hitting) - You okay, bro? - Yeah. Thanks, man. Look, just call the cops, okay? - No cops. We takin' these motherfuckers down to the cage. - Gary, you have to stop them. They're gonna kill those guys. (pop music) - Oh yeah. - Gary. Oh my, look at you, you stud. - Damn, bro, check you out, man. Ay, man, pull up a chair, kick it for a minute. - No, Jesse, I can't. I was driving by and I saw you guys, I just wanted to say hi. Been real busy at work, you know. I haven't had a chance to say hi to anybody. But, how you guys doin' anyway? - Ah, cool, man. You know, I'm still at Infiniti parking cars, you know, waiting for my big break. - You guys want anything? Gary. Oh, I had a great time at the club last weekend. Thanks for letting me in. - Not a problem. - Can I get you a drink? - [Gary] You know what, I gotta go to work, but thanks. - Well, come back when you can stay a while. Have dinner with me. (chuckling) - Whoa. - It's just the job, you know, it has that effect on chicks. You know what, I do, I gotta go, you guys. But listen, why don't you guys come down to the club anytime? Carte blanche, it's all on me, alright? It's good to see you. - [Jesse] Hey, don't be a stranger, bro. - [Gary] See you guys. - Oh, he is such a hunk now. - How's it goin' man? - Fucking crazy, bro. I ain't never seen a pack like this before. - What? (techno music) Hey baby. How you holdin' up? - It's so packed in here. - Yeah, I know, I'll take care of it. (whistles) Fellas, let's go. Tell T-Dog I wanna see him. What the fuck is wrong with you? How far over capacity are we? - Dude, almost 200. - Did I tell you to let people through that door while I was gone? No, I told you to keep that fuckin' thing shut until I got back. - Tobias told me to let people in. - Fuck Tobias. You don't work for him. - Tobias owns the club, white boy. - And I own this fuckin' door. And when you work my door, you do as I say, or your black ass is on the streets, do you understand? I asked you a fuckin' question. - [Man] Hey Gar. - [Woman] Ooo, Gary. - How you folks doin'? (cheering and applause) Did you miss me that much? (cheering and applause) Okay, listen, listen up people. I'm real sorry that you've all had to wait for so long and I promise, I will get you in as quick as I can. In the meantime, please accept my apologies. - [Man] Hey over here, man, I'm on the guest list. - Sorry buddy, not tonight, you're not. - Hey, man, my uncle owns this club, and he told me to come down and check it out. - No shit, Frank is your uncle? - Yeah, Frank, that's him, yeah. - The owner's name ain't Frank, buddy, but you get an E for effort. (crowd laughing) Now folks, I'm gonna have to ask you to line up on either side here. Fellas. I'll try to get you in as quick as I can, I promise, we're just really full right now. (slow, ominous music) (sirens blaring) Oh, fuck me. Fire marshal, Ronnie, Lance. Start gettin' people out the back door. You tell them the first ones to get back in when this is over, they drink for free the rest of the night, let's go. CJ, hey, listen to me. You cover all the rest of the exits, alright? Make sure nothing's blocking them. T-Dog, get your ass up to the VIP room. Sweep it for drugs. Tony, you go with him. Grab all the underage girls, get them into the DJ booth and lock the door. Lisa, make sure fire extinguisher's behind the bar. Tell Bridget to get out the back and tell Ginger to get her ass out here, she'll know what to do. Evening, sir, is there something I can help you with? - Yeah, well, we're gonna be entering your club. Checking out some occupancy violations. Please step aside. - I can assure you that my count is very accurate, sir. - You don't actually think I'm gonna believe your count, do you? - Well, I... I can assure you that it is very, very... Close. Give or take a few. - Well why don't you let me be the judge of that? - [Woman] Ooo, I love a man in uniform. - You men cover the back exits. I'm not gonna tell you again. Step aside. - Alright, he's in. Problem, sir? - Captain Daniels, what do you got? - Well, sir we've got about 300 people standing in the alley outside the club. - Outside the club? - Yes, sir, off the premises. - Are any of them carrying containers of alcohol? - Well a number of them appear to be drunk, sir, but no one seems to have any cans or glass or bottles in their hand, sir, at this particular time. - You think you're good, don't you kid? - No, sir. I know I'm good. Can I offer you a popsicle? - You're on my shit list kid. Watch your step. (clapping) - Good moves under pressure. With style, I like that. What's your name? - Why don't we start with yours, first? - And well trained, too. You work with Dirk Gueron, yeah? - Like I said, who's asking? - My name is Gregory Krukov. I own the Infiniti night club and you gonna come work for me. - Don't you already have a doorman, Mr. Krukov? - Not anymore. You start tomorrow. $1000 a week, cash. - So in other words, you'd like me to take a pay cut? - Alright. Let's cut the bullshit. $2000 a week, cash. And we both know that a good doorman can double that under the ropes. Now, I dare you to turn down that offer. - Alright, so if we level this building here, we'll have room to build a parking garage on this entire block? - [Man] Yes, exactly. - Alright. I'll let you know what I decide tomorrow. Thank you. I understand the Fire marshal paid you a little visit tonight. - Yeah. So did Krukov. - What'd I tell you about mentioning that fuckin' name around me, huh? You're fuckin' kidding me, right? You belong to the Knight Club. My organization is what takes care of you, it protects you, it makes sure that you always have work. - Krukov made me an incredible offer. - I made you. A year ago, you were nothin' but a punk ass kid with a big mouth. I taught you the business. I molded you into a player. I made you a knight. - And I made you wealthy. Your business is booming because I bring in more money for you than the rest of your doormen combined. - You're able to make that money because my organization provides with you an umbrella of protection. Any door you walk is secure because a criminal element in this city knows that door belongs to the Knight Club. You leave, you lose that protection. And let me tell you something else, Gary: you leave me for that fuckin' Russian, I will consider it a personal betrayal. - What does that mean, Dirk, huh? That you bury me in a hole so deep that only God never sees me again, is that it? - I won't have to. You go to work for Krukov, you'll bury yourself. (slow, ominous music) (pop music) - Hey. Laura, how are you? Thanks for waiting, come right in. Have a good time. - Gary. She's been drinking. No ID. - A young lass in my club with no ID? How old are you, young maiden? (laughing) You, young lady, are drunk indeed. What'll it be folks? - [Crowd] Penalty box, penalty box, penalty box. - Well the masses have spoken. Penalty box, thirty minutes. - Keep her locked up, I'll be back in a couple minutes. (crowd talking) (sniffling) (techno music) (people yelling) Hey sweetie, could I get three of the house's finest, please? What do you think? Enough honeys in here for ya? It's good, huh? There you are. To your help. Thank you. Now listen, you guys need anything, you come find me, alright? Have a good time. (pop music) (sniffling) Krukov, this blow you gave me sucks. - I told you to lay off that shit when you're working. I'm starting to get more and more complaints at the door. You're rude to people. - People who can't get into the club get mad. Then they complain. So who do they complain about? Me, the person who wouldn't let them in. Look, you wanna keep your club elite, Krukov? You gotta keep the scum out. That means you need a son of a bitch at your door. And that son of a bitch is me. Now if we're done, gentlemen, I have a club to run. - Okay, Gary. (speaking Russian) (funky music) - Who the fuck do you think you are? That is my boyfriend-- - He is mine. - No, stay the fuck away from him. - I told you to keep your hands off of him. - Don't even touch me. You wanna fight? You are such a fucking slut. Stay away from him. - How you doin' gorgeous? - Gary. - I must say, you do look hot as a redhead, Brittany. - Oh. My name's Desiree now. Desiree Corpus Christi. - Wow. So what's all the frackus about? - This fucking bitch is trying to steal my boyfriend. - He is my boyfriend. - Ladies, please. How you doin', bro? - Pretty good, man. - You got a couple bimbos fightin' over you, huh? - Yeah. - I'll tell you what, why don't you straddle on up to the bar over there and grab yourself a drink, on me. - No that's okay, bro. I wanna kinda see how this turns out. - I wasn't asking. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. - The problem is now gone. So you ladies have a choice: you can follow him out the door, or you can forget about him, stay here, party, and have a good time. What'll it be? Are we forgetting about something. (funky music) - Gary. You look so great. - Thanks, so do you. It's been a long time, Paige. - Yeah, like what, a year? - Yeah. - When'd you start smoking? - Oh, that's... That's just part of the job. Come on in, I'll show you around. - Oh, Gary, this is my husband, Brent. - You know what, I'm just gonna need you to wait for a couple of minutes, and I'll be right back. (funky music) (shrieking laughter) - Gary. (gasping) - Sorry about that, I just had some business to attend to, come on in. - Thanks, Gary. (rock music) - Well thanks so much for coming down. - Hey, bro, you almost ready to go? Look, I just need-- - What? - Ah, bro. We were gonna kick it tonight. Get something to eat, go to Big City. Hey man, have you seen Brittany? I was gonna ask to see if she wanted to go with us tonight. She dyed her hair red, man. Damn, that girl looks hot. - Jess, it was a wig. And, you know what, no. I'm not gonna go, man, I'm tired. I'm just gonna go home and just kick it, alright? - Yeah. - But listen, why don't you come down to the boat this weekend and you know, we'll have a couple beers. Oh, can you... Grab my 'Vet for me? (rock music) (jazz music) Hello, Dirk. How you doin'? Where's T-Dog? He go and get himself killed? - Leavenworth. Military police arrested him last month in The Play Room. Seems he was AWOL from the army for a couple of years. - That's almost too bad, isn't it? - Yeah. You just never know when you're gonna get fucked over. - Isn't that a fact, huh? Well. I'll see you around. (slow, tense music) - [Waiter] Hey, Gary. Good to see ya. - [Gary] How you doin', brother? (slow, tense music) (knocking) Hold your fuckin' horses, I'm comin'. Jesse. - Hey. - [Gary] What are you doin' here, man? - What do you mean? You asked me to stop by this weekend, bro. Man, I still can't get over this place. Living on the waves, driving a new 'Vet. Infiniti's done you good. - So how is everything goin'? - Eh, you know. Same old, same old. - What about acting class? - I don't know, I haven't gone. I can't afford it. - Gary. What are you-- Oh. Hi Jesse. Excuse me. - Jesse, come-- Come on, it's not what it looks like. Jess, let me at least give you some money, huh? Jesse. - Is he gone? - God, you are a stupid bitch, you know that? Get the fuck out of here. - [Man] Hey, man, you gonna let some people in or what? - Tell Jesse I wanna see him, would ya? - Jesse just quit, man. - What? - Walked in here, and he just quit. - Shit. (speaking Spanish) - Where the fuck you been? I asked you a question! - Hey! Who the fuck are you to talk to me, huh? Let's get one thing straight, I am the king here. You're just a fuckin' errand boy for Krukov, so don't you ever, ever, lay your fuckin' hands on me again. You got that? Greetings rich people with attitude and assorted middle income wannabes, and those of you who are just plain fucking losers. - Krukov. - [Krukov] Yes, Dimitri, what it is? - Urgent problem with Gary. - Let's just cut all the bullshit tonight, shall we? The first 10 people who lay a hundred dollar bill in my hand can get in. - Ah, man, you can't do that. I've been waitin' an hour to get in. - I can do any fucking thing that I want, asshole. Including just now deciding that you will never get into this night club. - Man, fuck you. - Hey, fuck you. - Let him go, man, come on, let him go. - You know what? You people are all scum. You ain't worth the fuckin' dirt on my shoe. - Man, fuck y'all, too. (techno rock music) - Gary. - What's the matter, your geek husband couldn't get in? - Your mom called last night. She's worried about you. You don't return her calls, you don't talk to her anymore. Look, can we go somewhere quiet and talk? - I know just the place. - [Security Guard] $40 gets you in. Come on, that's right, $40. Thank you, 40 bucks, right in, step right in. - Oh my god. Look at this place. They can't see me. - No one can see you. (techno rock music) (sirens blaring) - Gary. Gary, stop it. I said stop it. Oh, god, is that what I think it is? - Yeah. Oh. (sniffling) That's right, it's little Miss Goody Two Shoes, isn't it? Come on, don't tell me that you and your sugar daddy don't toot a little, huh? He probably needs a little somethin' just to get it up at night, huh-- - How dare you talk to me like that. - [grunts] Fuck. Don't you ever do that again. Or I'll have my people bury you in a hole so deep don't nobody ever see Paige Winston again, you got that? - Oh my god, Gary. What has happened to you? I can't believe what you've become. - Yeah. Cool, huh? King of the hill, baby. You do not know how lucky you are to be in here with me right now. - Ugh. - Do you know how many women out there would kill to be in your shoes right now? All of them. So let's just drop the hard to get act, Paige, okay, because we both know why you're here. Because you dig the new Gary. Oh yeah. You love me now that I'm a somebody, huh? Now that I got nice wheels, cool threads, and a big wad of money. All of a sudden, Paige Winston comes calling again. - You know what-- - Maybe you hate me? - Gary. - Is that it Paige? - You're hurting me. - Now that you realize it was a mistake to dump me, does that really piss you off, huh? - You're hurting me. - Huh? Well maybe it's time that you gave me the fucking respect-- (blow horn sounding) - [Fireman] Come on folks, step outside, please, come on. - Oh, fuck. Shit. - [Fireman] Fire department. Please, step outside. Take your time. - [Gary] Whoa whoa, hey, hey, hey. What the hell is going on? - [Fireman] Sir, please. I understand, let's go. - [Gary] Get your fuckin' hands off me, man. - [Fireman] Everybody out. Come on, folks. An orderly fashion, please. Take your time. - Please, Mr. marshal, if I could have 10 minutes of your time. - Hey! Hey! - Oh, what a pleasure it is to see you again, young man. - Just what the fuck do you think you're doing? - I'm shutting down this night club. - You can't just barge in here and start throwing people out. - I'm just responding to a formal complaint. Someone called the station and said this place was way too full with people. Captain, what's your count? - [Captain] 28 to 63, sir, and I still got a good 300 more people inside. - You're at least 500 people over legal capacity. In accordance of BCF, code 41A, I hereby revoke your license to operate a night club. Pending a formal review by the alcohol and beverage control board. I think the IRS will probably wanna take a close look at your accounting books. You're out of business. - Where the fuck were you? Why the fuck weren't you at the door? (speaking Russian) - [Dimitri] Not now. - I'm not finished. - Who the hell would do this to me? - I just wanted to phone and wish you happy birthday. I'll put a birthday card in the mail next week. - [Woman] Is everything alright, dear? Do you need some money? - No, ma, I'm fine. - [Woman] Are you sure? I have a little put away for a rainy day. - Ma, come on. I'm 26 years old, you know, I should be able to take care of myself. - [Woman] Well, just let me know if you need anything. How's Paige? Have you talked to her lately? - You know, Paige and I we... We don't see each other anymore, you know. You know, I gotta go, okay? And I'll give you a shout next week, okay, and, and you look for that card, okay? I love you. Jesse? - Gary. - How are you doin', man? - Great. I got a movie. It's not a big part but, you know, three weeks work. Derek starred in it. He got me the job. Pretty cool of him, huh? Yeah, yeah, that's great, man. Congratulations. - Oh, hey, um, this is-- This is my girlfriend. Look man, we gotta get goin'. See you around. - Jess, why don't I give you a call some time? We'll hook up, like old times. Ay, Jesse, I'm not on the boat anymore, so, I'll give you a shout and I'll leave you my new number, alright? Okay. - Sorry, bro, the owner ain't hiring. - Are you sure, man, because I can run the door, I can-- - He ain't hiring. - Look is there anything else? I mean, come on man, I can bartend-- - Look, man, everybody knows what went down at Infiniti. You put a lot of people out of work. It's gonna be hard to get a job at any club around town. - That wasn't my fault, there was a lot of other shit-- - Whatever, man. The answer's still no. - Hey, you know this fuckin' guy, right? Every time this chick he digs walks by, he puts another plate on the barbell. But the thing is, man, he's not lifting that weight, he just wants her to see him put the plate on, so-- - Hey, Dirk. I was just wondering if, you know, if maybe you and I could talk? I was kind of hopin' maybe you know, we could go somewhere private. You know, maybe you and I, we could... - You need a job, Gary? - Yeah. I need a job. - I know just the place for you. (country music) - What's the fucking problem? What is problem I can't have drink? Why can't I have drink? I want double vodka on rocks. Very simple-- - Listen to me, please. Would you just leave? He can't serve you. - Fuck you. I want drink, okay? I want a fucking drink. - I told you, you don't have ID. He can't serve you if you don't have ID. - Fuck you. You go outside, I show you I deal real good, motherfucker. - You motherfuckin' rooskie, let's go. - God dammit. - Let go of me. You piece of shit mother-- - What the hell did you do that for? I had it under control. I've been here for 20 minutes and you've thrown three guys out already. - Ain't it great? - No, it is not great. I was handling the situation. Now thanks to you, we made an enemy out of that guy. Look, if we're gonna build this shit hole into a real club, we need to establish a good rapport with the clientele. - I don't know what all them big 'ol damn fancy words mean, but the only thing they're gonna build here is a parking garage. - What? - Didn't Dirk tell you? Next week, they're bringing in bulldozers. They're gonna level this whole damn block. Oh yeah. - No. No, come on. Look, I'm a doorman, okay. I run night clubs, it's what I do and Dirk wouldn't give me this job unless he was gonna build something out of it. - He is gonna build somethin'. He's gonna make a parking garage. What the hell don't you understand, son? This time, next week, the only thing you and I are gonna be guardin' in a construction site. Which means I'm gonna have to bring my own damn beer and it's pissing me off. (country music) Hey, where you goin'? Hey, hey, hey slick? We got another four hours or you won't get paid. - You know what, I'm done now. In fact, I'm done for good. I'm through with this shit. (punching) - Ah, son of a bitch. (slow, tense music) (gun shot) Fuck! (gun shots) Slick, get over here! (gun shot) Get your head down, fool. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! Where you goin', slick? (slow, tense music) Damn, where the hell that boy go? (yelling) - Motherfucker! Son of a bitch! (yelling) (hitting) Get a look at me, motherfucker! Fuckin' look at me! (yelling) - Where's that rooskie? Did you get him, boy? Hey? Shit, where'd you get that gun? Where the hell you goin'? Hey. (slow acoustic music) - [Paige] Hi, this is Paige and Brent. We can't take your call right now, but if you leave a message, we'll get back to you shortly. Have a nice day. (machine beeps) - Hi. Paige, it's me, Gary. Listen, I hope you don't mind me phoning. I got your new number from your mom. Listen, I just wanted to phone and tell you that I'm really sorry for the way I've been and-- (machine beeping) (line cuts out) I hope that some day I'll find it in your heart to forgive me. - [Machine Recording] If you'd like to make a call, please hang up and try again. If you need help, hang up, and then dial the operator. (slow acoustic music) - Gary? Gary, hi. You remember me? Diane. It's okay, I'll just meet you in the check out, okay? Are you okay? I haven't seen you in a while. How have you been? - I'm good. How are you doin'? - Oh, good. I opened my own agency. Yeah, it was a struggle at first, but, now things are going really great. What are you doing, are you still in the business? - I'm gonna... Deliver my mom a birthday card and that's all I know for sure that I'm gonna do. - Deliver it to your mom in Wyoming? I understand. Look. Let me give you my card. You come back to Hollywood, you look me up. You give me a call. I can't promise you anything, but, I will try to get you work. Okay? - Yeah. - Hey, Gary, it's me. Errand boy. I'm delivering message. (gun shot) (slow, ominous music) (labored breathing) - [Narrator] Think twice about the price you'll play. About the faith and morals you'll so easily betray. The power of personal redemption is what you need. Or else all you'll pay for is the sins of your greed. (rock music)