Transcript for Secrets of a Sorority Girl (1945) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (dramatic orchestral music) - What is your name, please? - Paul Reynolds. - Mr. Reynolds, you realize your testimony might incriminate you? - Yes. - And you're making this testimony freely, without duress or compulsion? - Yes. - Will you please tell the court what your relationship was with the defendant, Miss Linda Hamilton? - Well, I, I first met Miss Hamilton while attending Conover College. (lively jazz music) - Do you like our party? - Oh, having a wonderful time. - You're just being nice. - No, just honest, it's swell. Brings back a lot of memories. - Must take a lot of something to come back to college years after you've graduated. Can't see myself ever coming back. - Well, a postgraduate course is the only way to get a PhD. - Is that so important? - (chuckles) I'll let you know 50 years from now. - Hello, hello, dear. Hello, Joe. Good evening, Mrs. Blake. - Hello. (glass crashes) - Judy, what are you doing? - I'm doing an amphibious landing, you dope. - Come on, let's dance, huh? (lively jazz music) - She's been acting very mysterious lately. - Looking for Linda? - Do you know where she went? - Yes, have you seen her? - Well, I saw her go into the meeting room with Mr. Paul Reynolds. - Well! - Oh! - Well, let's go. - Paul Reynolds, valedictorian of his class, voted the most likely to succeed, entered newspaper work and became a successful reporter. - Well, you've been reading books. Linda Hamilton, two years president of Alpha Beta Sorority, most popular girl in her class, beautiful, talented daughter of the city's progressive and dynamic district attorney. - You've been reading books. - What's the matter? Linda! - Linda! - Linda! Linda! Linda, what's the matter? - What's happened to her? - Please get some water. I said please get some water! Do you feel any better? - My first date with Mr. Reynolds and I faint. - You certainly had us scared, Linda. - You certainly did. - Do you feel better? - Please, I think Miss Hamilton better go to her room and rest. (girls chattering) - Please, girls, Mr. Reynolds is right. Let me rest a while. I'll be all right. - So then the girls took over and I left. - When did you next see Miss Hamilton? - Mm, it must've been a few days later. I called up the sorority house. In fact, I met her outside. I ah, I invited her to go for a ride. - Well, had she quite recovered from her fainting spell? - I'm not sure. I did notice she seemed worried, sort of depressed and indifferent. Aw, come on along. We might stir up some excitement. Get some of the college cobwebs out of our hair. - But I shouldn't leave the campus. - Oh, you'll be in safe hands. We'll call it ah, we'll call it journalism research. Our first stop will be the notorious Blue Parrot. Plenty of characters hang out there. Nick Vegas, the owner, is an old friend of mind. (light piano music) - Hi, Reynolds. - Hold it, Pete. - You mean you're a professor? - Oh, not that bad. Just going back to school again. - (chuckles) How do ya like that? Reynolds going to school. Maybe I need a teacher. - You're doing all right. See ya later. - If it ain't Paul Reynolds. Hiya, tall, dark, and handsome. - Hello, Mabel. - Where you been keeping yourself? - Taking a vacation. I'll see ya around. (light piano music) - You seem to be the prodigal son around here. - Oh, it used to be my job covering these places. - Mm, interesting. - Hi, Professor, glad to see you're back. - Hello, Louie, how are you? - Oh, everything's okay. Same as usual? - You never forget. - How about the lady? - Oh, ah, this is Miss Hamilton. - Ah, how do you do, ma'am? - Miss Hamilton will have ginger ale too. - Ginger ale? - Yeah, we're just sightseeing. - Sure (chuckles), right away. Two ginger ales. Hmm, that's that Hamilton girl. - The boss said she'd show up here some night. I didn't believe him. (light piano music) - If you're bored, we'll leave. - Bored, don't be so naive. I've never been in a place exactly like this, and I'm afraid I'm going to like it. I guess you really don't know me. Actually, I thrive on excitement. (light piano music) Who are those people? - Special guests. - Oh, they gamble back there? - Well, ah, slightly. - Can't we go in and watch? - Not tonight, maybe some other time. - But, Paul, I want to see things. I want to go where I've never been before. - Get that camera working. - Sure. - Hi, Nick. - Save it, Reynolds. We're being raided. - Raided? - Now, there's nothing to worry about Miss Hamilton. - Nick will take care of us. - I'm not worried, it's thrilling. - Follow me. (sirens wailing) You know your way from here? - Sure thing, Nick. - Thanks, it's been fun. - I'll be opening another club soon, drop around. (sirens wailing) (light violin music) - I didn't bargain on the raid. - It was thrilling. I wonder what Father would say if he knew I was there? - Yeah, your father staged it. - I should be worried, but I'm not. Gonna be another of my secrets. - Secrets? - A girl has to have secrets, some big ones and some small ones. This will be one of my big ones. - I guess we both like excitement. (whimsical orchestral music) - It must be awfully late. - It is. - I must get in. - If you have any trouble, blame it on me. - I'll simply say we went to the notorious Blue Parrot, and it was raided. We'd both be expelled. Goodnight, Paul. - Goodnight. (whimsical orchestral music) (car door thuds) (dramatic orchestral music) - I should be afraid, but I'm not. The truth is I'd like to go again. - Really, suppose you got into another raid? It's possible, you know? - I don't care, it's exciting. - Say, do you ever gamble? - I'm really gambling everyday. - No, no, no, seriously now. How would you like to visit a big gambling house? - I'd love to! - Are you sure? - When do we go? - Well ah, how about tonight? - Oh, tonight we vote on the new sorority pledges. You're invited to the dance after our meeting. Are you coming? - (chuckles) I wouldn't miss an opportunity to dance with you. - Linda. - Yes? - Your father's here. - Funny he should be here today, isn't it? - You must meet him. If he knows about last night, you'll explain. - Hello, dolly. - Father. - Thought I'd surprise you. - (giggles) It is a surprise. - Well, I stole a little time from the office. - Father, I want you to meet my friend, Paul Reynolds. He's taking a postgraduate course. - How are you, Mr. Reynolds? - How do you do, Mr. Hamilton? - Paul Reynolds, there used to be a reporter on The Globe. - Paul was a reporter. - (chuckles) I suppose I might as well confess. - Well, that's interesting, I remember several years ago you wrote a series of articles exposing city graph that convicted Alderman Becker. - Oh, I was lucky to run across some evidence which made good copy. - Well, it was handled very cleverly. - Oh, thank you. You're handling your cleanup campaign very cleverly. - Coming from you, that's quite a compliment. Say, I could use a man of your experience. - Oh, sorry, I'm trying to get a PhD. I'm afraid my reporting days are about over. - May I say a word, please? - Sorry, darling. - You said you came to see me. - From now on you have my undivided attention. (Linda giggles) Nice to have seen you, Mr. Reynolds. Ah, if you change your mind, look me up. - Oh, thanks, maybe I will someday. Oh, I'll ah, I'll see you tonight, Linda, goodbye. - Goodbye, sit down dear. - As it was? - Naturally. - And you saw Miss Hamilton again? - Yes, but I had to wait quite awhile for her. She was tied up with some sorority business or other. - I see, and did you dance with her? - No, I didn't. - Oh, well, why not? - Well, she wasn't in the mood. I'd say she was a little fed up with her duties as president of the sorority. (whimsical orchestral music) Oh, are you ready for our dance? - Let's get out of here. - But, Linda, I thought-- - Please. - All right, if you want to. - Is your car outside? - Yes. - I'll meet you in five minutes. I'll get my coat. (whimsical orchestral music) Did you ever feel your dreams were wearing thin? - Are yours? - I've got to keep going every minute, every hour. - You sound desperate. What're you chasing? - A couple of quick rainbows. - You know, I'm beginning to think your father gave you a spanking this afternoon. You didn't tell me what he said. - Nothing, our secret's safe. I should be ashamed, but I'm not, why? - Because you really haven't got anything to be ashamed of. - Then let's forget everything and go ahead and have fun, and live this night. How far is it to the gambling house? - We'll be there in a minute. Maybe you'll find your bucket of gold. - (giggles) I want two buckets, Paul, two. (Paul chuckles) (patrons chattering) - Good evening, Mr. Reynolds. - Hello, Jim. (patrons chattering) - Number 13! - 13! (patrons chattering) - Seven, the loser, next shooter. Coming out, folks. Place your bets down. 10, 10, wanted. (patrons chattering) - Well, what will you have? - I want a real drink. - Scotch, bourbon, champagne? - Bourbon. - Bourbon, with ginger ale? - Yes. - Okay, two plain ginger ales. - But I wanted a-- - And you're still having ginger ale. - How are you, Reynolds? - Oh. - Where you been keeping yourself? - Hello, Whitey, ah, this is Miss Hamilton. Whitey King who owns this place. - Miss Hamilton, pleased to meet you. - Thank you, I intend to win a lot of your money tonight. - (chuckles) I hope you do. Anything you want, Reynolds, just let me know. - Right. - You know the most interesting people. (patrons chattering) - I left her for a few minutes to make a telephone call. On the way back I learned that the police were going to raid the place. Come on, we're leaving. - Why, we're having such a good time. - I said we're leaving. - You're hurting me. - Sorry, but we gotta get outta here. (sirens wailing) - All right, folks, you'll all have to leave now. The place is closed. Close it up. (sirens wailing) (patrons chattering) (whimsical orchestral music) - It wouldn't be so funny if the daughter of the district attorney was caught in a raid. - Well, there's one sure way of not being caught, stay home. - That's just what I don't want. I know I'm selfish. I should think of Father, but I had so much fun. It was so exciting. I must keep going. - Sure, Linda, I understand. - I feel so safe when I'm with you. - That's the way I want you to feel. (whimsical orchestral music) Well, we ran around a good bit together, to nightclubs, the races, the beaches, all over. - And to um, gambling houses as well? - Yes, but I began to realize she was overdoing it. It was almost too much for me. I tried to talk to her, but she wouldn't listen. I felt somehow that she was deliberately driving herself to, well, to, to keep going. - Did you take her out on the night of September 10th? - Yes. - Where did you take her? - To Whitey King's gambling house. - Was that the night the place was raided by the police? - Yes. - Would you please tell the court what happened? - I tried to get her away. - I see, you tried to get her away, so she wouldn't be arrested during the raid. Is that it? - Yes. - I see, ah, you wanted to protect her? - Yes. - Did Miss Hamilton faint or pass out during the raid? - No. - Would you say she had been drinking intoxicating liquor on this particular night? - Yes. - How much? - I couldn't say how much, but she had enough. - I see, well, in your opinion, Mr. Reynolds, would you say ah, would you say she was intoxicated? - She wasn't normal. - Was Miss Hamilton intoxicated? - Yes. (gallery murmuring) (gavel pounding) - Order, order! - So you left the gambling house, just the two of you, Miss Hamilton and you. Then where did you go? - Went outside to my car. - I see, and then what happened? - Well, she insisted on driving it. - I see, and did you let her drive? - Well, it's no time for argument with so many police around. - I see, so just the two of you drove away together. Is that right? - That's right. - And there were no other occupants in the car? - No. - After you left the gambling house, then what happened? - We were chased by a motorcycle officer. - I see, and then? - Well, I argued with her to stop, but she refused. - You argued with her? Is that all you did? - No, while struggling for possession of the wheel, she ah, she suddenly applied the brakes, then the motorcycle officer crashed into the rear of the car. - I see, and then? - I wanted to get help. - Well, did you get help? - I got out of the car, but she ran off, leaving me standing in the middle of the road, miles away from the nearest phone. - Mr. Reynolds, you're aware of the fact that you made yourself punishable under the law when you decided to keep the knowledge of the police officer's death to yourself? - I knew I was making a mistake, but I wanted to protect Miss Hamilton and her father, because his chances for election would certainly have been ruined if the truth had leaked out. - Your witness. - No questions. - That'll be all, Mr. Reynolds. Has the prosecution any more witnesses? - The prosecution rests. - Mr. Kelland, are you ready? - The defense is ready, Your Honor. - The council for the defense will please introduce his witnesses. - I would like to call Dr. Edmond Johnston to the stand. - Will Dr. Edmond Johnson please take the witness stand? - And will you kindly tell the court what branch of the medical profession you specialize in, Dr. Johnston? - I am known as a neuropsychiatrist. I treat neurosis, that is nervous conditions, and mental disorders. - Do you know the defendant? - I do. - Has she ever been your patient? - Yes, she has. - Will you give to the court, as far as it is ethical, an outline of Linda Hamilton's medical condition as you know it? - I object on the grounds that such testimony is irrelevant and immaterial. - Your Honor, I contend that the medical, physical, and mental condition of the defendant at the time of the accident is both relevant and material! - Objection overruled, proceed! - Go ahead, Doctor. - Well, it's a rather strange story. Several months ago, Linda Hamilton began coming to my office. She gave me her name as Mary Warner. She complained of splitting headaches, of fainting spells, and lapses of memory. All my efforts to get any information regarding her family background were in vain. She insisted that she had no family. Then sometime later I saw her picture in the newspapers. - When did you last see her at your office? - Well, it was about two months ago. Now, look here, young lady. I read your clinical report. Organically and physically, there's really nothing seriously wrong with you yet. - But, Doctor, I can't possibly be well. These fainting spells are getting worse, and, and I can't seem to remember anything anymore. - Just a minute. I'm coming to that. You have a fication, possibly a mild hysteria, but that is something we can only delve into if you're willing to give me your full support. Now, do you want me to speak frankly, Miss Warner? - Of course. - You're not helping yourself or me by being so evasive about your identity. A doctor, in order to combat a thing of this nature, must study his patient's medical history, and his patient's family medical history as well. - I have no family. I told you that before. - You did say that. - You think I'm lying, Doctor? - I'm sure I understand your attitude, and I'd like to help you overcome your fears, but my hands are tied as long as you insist on being so vague about your family background. - Doctor, if I had a family, is there something you'd tell them that you're afraid to tell me? - Not at all. - Oh, I know better. You're trying to be kind. You can tell me anything, anything. I'm not a coward. - On the contrary. I think you're trying to be very brave when it's all so unnecessary and futile. - Please, Doctor, I'm not a child! I have a right to know what's wrong with me! You don't have to spare me! You don't have to be so ethical! I know what's going to happen to me, I feel it. - Now, listen to me, child, listen to me! - No, no, I won't listen! I won't come here anymore! You won't even tell me the truth anyway! There's no use! (dramatic music) - She never came back, and frankly, I was worried about her condition. - Well, Doctor, didn't you say that she was fairly healthy at that time? - As far as her physical examination showed, yes, but her mind, the fixation that obsessed her, was one I knew which might lead to serious consequences. However, since she refused to confide in me, there was no way in which I could find out the cause of her trouble. - I see, well, what in your opinion, is the reason Linda Hamilton used a fictitious name? - Now that we see things more clearly, I think that we can assume that she simply wanted to prevent her father from learning of her ailment, to spare him any anxiety. (dramatic music) - Will you tell the court what you know of the defendant's activities during the period just prior to the ah, tragedy? - Unfortunately, I had very little time for Linda. The gambling syndicate had opened numerous places in the city, and the newspapers were clamoring for my office to shut them up. But as fast as we'd closed them, they'd open in a new location. (dramatic music) I suppose Nick Vegas posted his bail promptly. - Yes, his bondsman, Farley, was waiting at the police station to bail him out. - Any evidence as to the relaunch? - No, we turned the place inside out. - We're up against a clever, shrewd syndicate. Their objective is quite plain. They hope to create a gambling empire within the city, and eventually, if successful, make is statewide. - We haven't played all our cards yet. - Never have they. Closing these places is only of nuisance value. We've got to find the man or men behind it. - That's right, oh ah, here's the list you wanted. Five gambling houses, six bookie offices, and four new nightclubs opened in the past week. - Well, we close them up like we did the others. We'll keep punching. Later Linda called me from the sorority house. She wanted to see me right away. It sounded urgent, but for the life of me, I couldn't meet her then. I had very important meeting at the Chamber of Commerce. However, the next morning, feeling a bit uneasy, I went directly to the college. (whimsical music) - Satisfied? - Yes, yes, but you sure sounded worried when you called on the phone. - That was yesterday. Today everything's different and wonderful. - Something was annoying you. Now, what was it? - Oh, nothing really. I had an argument with my biology proc. You know, one of those great, big schoolgirl problems. - You sure that's all? - (giggles) Of course, Father. It was silly of me to even think of calling you. - Oh, wait a minute, I wanna show you something. (dramatic music) My new dress, Daddy, for the dance tonight. - Why, it's quite grownup and Linda, so are you. You're a very lovely young lady. I can hardly believe my eyes. - Well, Father, how would you like to take your grownup daughter to lunch? - That motion I'll second. - I'll be with you in a moment. (suspenseful music) - Oh, I know, darling, your mother always kept a diary. I wouldn't look at it for the world. (suspenseful music) Where to, my lady? - Where thou would, sire. - I wish things we're different, dear. We shouldn't have to go on like this, seeing each other for lunch or dinner once or twice a week. Guess I'm not a very good father. - That's what you think. I have a different opinion. - The truth remains, you know, I use your living at the sorority house as an excuse for neglecting you. I'm just waking up to the fact that I've been blind to everything except my own personal ambitions. Politics does that to a man. - Oh, you're exaggerating. Nothing matters so long as you're elected. I'd be so proud. Governor John Hamilton. - The election isn't over, you know? - A mere formality. You'll win by a landslide. - You should be my campaign manager. Linda, when ah, when are you finished, with school I mean. - I'm supposed to graduate next spring. - That's what I'm waiting for, and I'll let you in on a little secret that I've been nursing for a long time. - You're pretty sure of being elected, aren't you? - Confidentially, yes, and you're going to be my first lady. How would you like that? You have other plans of getting married or something? - I have no plans, Father. - In that case I have. I'm going to make up to you for everything, whether it's Governor or just plain John Hamilton. Linda, you and I are going to live. About a week had past after this luncheon engagement with my daughter. My collaborators and I were mapping out stricter measures against the gambling syndicate when Linda phoned again. All right, dear, come in about six and we'll have dinner. And remember, whatever it is that's bothering you, can be fixed up. Don't worry, goodbye. My ah, daughter. Children always make their problems sound like life and death. Well, gentlemen, I've decided to go after the patrons of the gambling houses. - Good, finding and convicting these gamblers on a misdemeanor charge certainly hasn't been enough. - I'll say it hasn't. In 30 days they're operating again in a new place. - Well, that's what we've been up against right along, but ah, perhaps if we arrest some of our citizens for visiting these gambling houses, they won't be so anxious to go back again. - You can't operate without customers. It'll mean throwing a cordon of police around the place we raid, and arresting everyone inside. - How much time will you need? - Well, I can have enough men ready tonight. - Good, the sooner we strike, the better. We'll meet at the 16th Precinct Street Station. Everything clear, gentlemen? - Right, good. - The supervision of the gambling raids kept me busy day and night. Made it impossible to keep my appointment with Linda. When I tried to reach her by phone, I learned that she'd been in her room all day, and wouldn't talk to anyone. So, I canceled my appointments and drove down to the campus. - I didn't expect you. - Well, I couldn't get you by phone, so I decided to drive down and see you. - Is anything wrong? - No, everything's right for a change. Cleared up my desk early and well, here I am. Linda, I ah, I'm terribly sorry I had to disappoint you last night. - It doesn't matter. - Well, it won't happen again. As soon as this election is over, win, lose, or draw, you and I are going to spend a lot of time together. - Father. - Why, darling. It's been along time since I've held you in my arms. Linda, why did you lock yourself in your room? Sit down. (melancholy music) Something is bothering you. I want to know what it is. - There's nothing, Father. Nothing I can tell you. - Are you all right? Are you sure you're not ill? - No, no, I'm all right. - Now, look, don't try to fool your daddy. You telephone me and it's very, very urgent. I rush down here and you're very evasive again. You shut yourself away from everybody, and then try to tell me there's nothing wrong. I simply can't believe it. Linda, you've got to have confidence in me. Come on, tell me. - It's just that I'm so involved. Everything's so complicated and unbearable. - I think perhaps I know what's troubling you. - What? - Paul Reynolds. - You know about. - Yeah, sure, all young people have romantic problems, and they're so very, very serious at the moment. Believe me, Linda, if it can be patched up, there's only thing to do. That's get away from it. What a girl in your state of mind needs is a nice, long vacation. - I do need to get away. I'm so tired of school, the sorority, and everything. I can't stay here any longer. - I know exactly how you feel. I'd like to get away myself, but I can't right now. How would you like to go to Florida, perhaps Havana. - Havana? - Yes, it's a beautiful place to forget. You can swim, ride, play golf, relax. Perhaps I can join you after the election. How does that sound? - Wonderful. - Good. - Wonderful. - Then it's all settled. I'll go right down, make arrangements with the dean. Bye, dear. I left Linda feeling like a very wise father. Seemed logical to me that she should be upset over a spat with her boyfriend. I hadn't dug deep enough. Yes, the 17th will be fine. Of course, I'll take care of her passport and visa, and I'll have someone down to pick up the tickets first thing in the morning. Just hold them in the name of Linda Hamilton. (knocking on door) Thanks very much, come in. Yes, Jerry? - A messenger just handed me this, Mr. Hamilton. He asked me to give it to you personally. - Well, you certainly did, thanks. - Yes, sir. (dramatic orchestral music) - Father! - Here, you can't go barging in here like this! - It's all right, officer. Ah, wait just a moment, will you please? Linda, is all this true? (dramatic orchestral music) - Yes. - Who is the man? The man you mentioned in the diary. - Ah, the motorcycle officer. (dramatic orchestral music) - Officer, arrest this girl. The charge is manslaughter. (dramatic orchestral music) - Will Linda Hamilton take the stand, please? - Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you? - I do. - Please be seated. - Miss Hamilton, will you tell us, without reservation, everything that happened during the past few weeks? Don't spare yourself or anyone else, how ever damaging the truth may be, but tell us the truth. - I will. - Will you begin with the evening of the sorority dance after you recovered from your fainting spell. - I was in my room with a terrible headache. (suspenseful music) - This was the entry you made that night. Tonight, I am so alone. I had another attack, worse than usual. I might as well face the issue. I can't deny it any longer. Mother had the same symptoms before she died. I'm so afraid. Tomorrow afternoon I am to see the doctor again. I wonder what he'll tell me or if he will tell me. Do doctors ever tell the truth if it's bitter and hopeless? Did you write that? - Yes. - You mentioned an appointment with the doctor. Did you keep it? - I did. - What was the outcome of that visit? - He convinced me more than ever before that my case was hopeless and that I was going to die. - Did the doctor tell you that? - No, not directly, but his evasive manner told me clearly enough what he thought. He tried to be kind, but he couldn't fool me. I knew better. - Did you see the doctor again? - No, I ran from his office and never went back. It was no use. I'd made up my mind. I'm terribly sorry. I must ask you to accept my resignation as president. - Oh no. - No. - There must be some reason. It's only fair that you tell us why. - Please explain, Linda. - There is no reason. I'm just tired. It's been wonderful working with you in the sorority. I (sighs), I just can't go on. (dramatic orchestral music) There's no reason he should suffer with me. There's nothing he can do anyway. (dramatic orchestral music) I'm no different from anyone else. Everybody has to die. The only difference is that I must think of it all the time because it's so close to me. (dramatic orchestral music) Now nothing is important but to live my life, and as long as it lasts I will enjoy it. No one shall ever say I was sad and beaten. (hooves thudding) (dramatic music) (light jazz music) (audience applauding) (lively jazz music) (lively orchestral music) (suspenseful music) - Linda. I've been waiting for you. Do you know what time it is? - No. - It's after two o'clock. I must ask you to see me in the morning. - Yes, Mrs. Blake. - I can't understand your conduct, Linda. It's not only that you've been staying out these late hours, which you know is against the rules. You, you seem to have lost interest in the sorority. My dear, what is the matter? - Nothing's the matter. - Please, Linda, why are you evading the question? Why don't you let me help you? - I don't need any help. - Very well, you leave only one course open. You must change your conduct, or I shall have to report you to the dean. - What's she saying? - Shh. - Have you anything to say, Linda? - No, Mrs. Blake. - You may go, but remember what I told you. - Thank you, your father isn't there. - He told me to be here promptly at six. - Oh, I'm sure he'll be along any moment now. - Will you please try him again? - Certainly, Miss Hamilton. (telephone ringing) Hello, yes, yes, sir. She's right here. - Hello, Father. But, Father, it is important. But I must tell you something. All right, yes. Tomorrow night. Can't see me. Can't even talk to his own daughter. - Your father's a very busy man. - I don't care if he is! He promised to see me tonight. - Is there anything I can do? Can I help you? - No one can help me, no one (crying). Father can't see me. I can't talk to my own father. I wanted to tell him everything. I don't care what happens now. I don't care. Oh, bartender. (patrons chattering) Bourbon and ginger ale, please. (patrons chattering) - Good evening, Miss Hamilton. - Oh, hello. - Reynolds with you? - No, he couldn't come tonight, so I came alone. I had such wonderful luck the last time. - How'd you know we were open again? - I didn't know, but I thought you might be. (patrons chattering) - I thought you drink ginger ale? - Well, that's all changed now. I'm growing up. - The lady's drinking ginger ale. - Why did you do that? - Because you're too nice a kid to be drinking in a place like this. I wish you'd go home. - Well. - Look, this is a gambling house, not a penny arcade for school kids. You'd better beat it before you get in trouble. (patrons chattering) (pounding on door) - Open up, break the door down! - Cops! (door thudding) (sirens wailing) - I don't remember anything from then on, until I found myself sitting behind the wheel of Mr. Reynolds' car. I heard his voice. (crickets chirping) - Linda, Linda. - Huh? - Linda, something terrible has happened. - What's terrible? - Come here, I'll show you. (crickets chirping) - What, what happened? - You were driving. I tried to make you slow down, but you laughed and went faster. Then before I could stop you, you suddenly applied the brakes. - Driving, I couldn't. The last thing I remember was the raid. - You seemed a little bit woozy when I picked you up, but you insisted on driving. (cricket's chirping) - Is he? - Take it easy. - I made up my mind to tell my father everything. When he stood before me the next morning, so unsuspecting, so full of confidence in me, I lost all courage. I knew that his whole future would be ruined if, if the truth came out. I simply couldn't tell him that I wasn't just a silly, young thing crying my heart out over a broken romance as he seemed to believe. He said I needed to forget and go away. So, he made marvelous vacation plans for me. - You agreed with the idea of going away? - Yes, I, I did, but I realize now I could never have run away from myself. - Go on, please. - Then that night I discovered several pages of my diary were missing, cleverly cut out. I suddenly felt that somehow those pages would be used to intimidate my father, or in some way to hurt him in the elections. There was nothing left for me but to run to his office, and, and confess everything. But I was too late. He had no choice but to order my arrest, because the evidence was so overwhelming that I killed a man (crying). (gallery murmuring) (gavel pounding) - Order, order! - The defense rests. - No questions. (suspenseful music) - When you were on the stand before, Doctor, you testified that Miss Hamilton had a fixation or obsession, but that you we're unable to find the underlying cause. - That is true. - You've been in this court everyday since the trial started? - I have. - Have you heard anything in the testimony of the various witnesses, or the evidence introduced, and read into the record from the diary that would help you to arrive at a more complete diagnosis of the defendants medical condition? - I have. - Would you kindly give the court your expert opinion? - Well, I think we can safely say that the young girl was suffering from a fixation brought about by the knowledge that her own mother died young. That certain that her mother's outward symptoms were identical with her own. She reached a conclusion that she too was doomed to an early death. This thought took possession of her better judgment. Harassed her, brought about a change in her habits, in her desires, her ambitions. - Would you say that her conclusion, as you call it, had any basis in fact? - There is absolutely no connection between her mother's death and her own symptoms. It is pure coincidence that the symptoms are similar. - Would you say that she could be restored to good health? - Certainly, there's nothing wrong with this girl that rest and right treatment wouldn't cure. - Meaning her fainting spells, and lapses of memories as well? - Yes, I might also mention that Linda seems inclined toward anemia, but in the majority of cases, young girls outgrow that as they mature. - Hmm, well, Doctor, perhaps the court would like to know how these lapses of memory develop. What are the causes? - Fright, anxiety, any one of a thousand mental strains. They probably come up on a person quite suddenly without the patient being fully aware of the mental slowing up process. Although, his physical reactions and reflexes would appear quite normal. - Would a person while in this condition be able to drive a car? - I object! - Your Honor, I trust the court can see the reason for my line of questioning. - Objection overruled! You may answer. - Yes, a person might drive a car, but it's highly improbable. - Well, do you think it would've been possible for Linda to drive the car that night without knowing it? - I doubt it very much. - Would you say that a person can be held responsible for his acts during such a fainting spell, lapse of memory or a blackout? - Certainly not. - I object on the grounds that such a question calls for an opinion, and that it be struck from the record. - Objection sustained! Strike out Dr. Johnston's answer. - Thank you, Dr. Johnston. The defense rests, Your Honor. - Your witness. - No questions. - I'd like permission to call the defendant back to the stand. - Granted. - Now, Miss Hamilton, you heard Paul Reynolds testify that you were drinking the night the police officer was killed. - I ordered a drink, but the owner of the place wouldn't let them serve me. - Who is the owner? What was his name? - I, I can't remember. - Hmm, but you do remember that on other occasions, you did indulge in intoxicating liquors. - I object, Your Honor. - Your Honor, my line of questioning is to bring out the fact that the defendant was in the habit of indulging in alcoholic drinks, and that the affect of such indulgences is identical with the symptoms of her lapses of memory as explained by the learner Dr. Johnston. - Objection overruled! You may answer. - I don't remember. What was it you asked me? - Let me refresh your memory, Miss Hamilton. Didn't you say, under oath, that on a certain evening you drank some champagne? - Yes, that was the time I won at the races. - I see, has anyone ever told you champagne was not intoxicating? - Of course not! - Then you know it is intoxicating? - Yes. - That's all, thank you, Miss Hamilton. - Has the council for the defense any further questions? - Thank you, Your Honor, I have. Miss Hamilton, you heard Dr. Johnston's testimony. - Yes. - And you remember everything he said, everything? - Yes. - Do you still believe that you're hopelessly ill, and are doomed to die, or do you believe Dr. Johnston's expert opinion? - I think I believe. I believe what Dr. Johnston said, everything, it's true. - And you recognize that your fears, anxieties, misapprehensions, were founded on a mental fallacy? - Yes, yes, I know it now. - Well, why didn't you recognize this fact sooner? - I don't know. I suppose I must've taken it for granted that I inherited my mother's illness. Convinced myself beyond all doubt. Understood only what I wanted to understand. Created for myself a lie which I lived as a truth. I don't know. It's been like a terrible dream. - But you are awake now. - I, I hope so. - To get back to your testimony, Miss Hamilton. You said that you fainted during the raid in the gambling house that night. - Yes. - That you woke up on the highway in a car with Paul Reynolds. - Yes. - Do you remember getting in that car, driving it, or getting behind the wheel? - No, I don't. - Well, try to remember. A lot can depend upon it. - But I can't. - But if you fainted, someone must've carried you to the car. Isn't that so? - I suppose so. - It has to be so. Think, try to remember. You must remove that black curtain. Think back, they are memories deep in your mind that you must remember, think, think! You must remember! - Now I remember. (dramatic music) I remember. I remember. (door thudding) (siren wailing) - Open up! (door thudding) (siren wailing) - Come on. (siren wailing) (suspenseful music) (engine roaring) (suspenseful music) (siren wailing) (suspenseful music) - He's gaining! - I can see. (siren wailing) (suspenseful music) (engine roaring) (suspenseful music) (siren wailing) (suspenseful music) (tires screeching) (motorcycle crashing) (suspenseful music) How ya gonna square that? - Beat it, I don't need you. - Suits me. - See you at Charlie's later. I'll tell ya what to do. - Okay. (car door thuds) (suspenseful music) - Yes, I'm sure now! Paul lifted me behind the wheel, Paul! - It's a lie! She's out of her mind! (gavel pounding) - Order in the court! Sit down, Mr. Reynolds! - Your Honor, I have something to say. Everything she said is true! He framed her to make the D.A. lay off his gambling houses! Paul Reynolds is behind the whole racket in this city! (gallery murmuring) (gavel pounding) - Order, order! Will the man who just spoke approach the bench? (suspenseful music) (gallery screaming) (gun firing) - Don't anybody move. (suspenseful music) (guns firing) (dramatic orchestral music)