Transcript for The Foundation Pit (2020) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- a film by Andrey Gryazev - Here, this. This red button, and it`s switched off. That red button, and it`s switched on. That`s all. Don`t touch this bit. Here`s your channel “Russia”. “Russia”, you see? Russia. “Russia TV” “News Telegram” - A special operation was required in Dolgoprudny to rescue a foreign car that had almost slipped into a foundation pit. - State of emergency in the West of Moscow: an excavator collapsed into a foundation pit. - Right away: a state of emergency has been declared in the West of Moscow. A dredge has collapsed on a foundation pit at the building site of an apartment house. - Let go! Stop! Gobsmacking! - In the north of Moscow a tractor has fallen into a foundation pit. The driver managed to get out and disappeared. The reasons for his failure to operate the tractor are being investigated. - Attaboy, jumped out at least. - A building with ten residents is slipping into a foundation pit at a speed of 3 meters per day. - Roman, you shoot this. We won`t fall? - You`re filming? - Yes. As I said, the day ain`t over yet. It`ll fall on us now, look. See, it`s crumbling. - We won`t fall, for sure? - We should be ok for the moment. Where`s that man going? What a fool? Look, the ground is slipping! And there`s baldy. Oh my. - Now an urgent message. - In Moscow, the wall of the foundation pit for a building under construction has collapsed. There are casualties, eyewitnesses say. On the site, the local emergency services are already at work. Details in the following news release. - Death at the bottom of a foundation pit: a worker has been buried under soil. The tragic events unfolded last night. - One step to death: a man has slipped and fallen in the hole of a foundation pit. The cliff was secured by a fence but, it seems, the construction could not keep the man away. - The body of a 71-year-old inhabitant was found by passers-by at the bottom of a deep foundation pit next to a building site. The foundation pit was not secured: the fence had collapsed and not been restored. As the inhabitants of the neighbouring houses assume, the man tried to get out of the trap, but it turned fatal. Relatives searched for the missing man who had gone to pay for the communal services and never returned. - Passers-by have found the motionless body at the bottom of the pit at 6am. Next to him, the bill for the communal services. - Are you all at home? - Father isn`t here. - He hasn`t come? - No. - He left yesterday to pay the communal charges and has not returned, - say the relatives. They searched all the night long, but did not check the hole. - A man has fallen into a foundation pit located near the local bus terminal. How he got there has not been established. But there was no chance of getting out with additional help. Fortunately for the victim, he was discovered in time. - Hello! My name is Michael Osetrov. Today the weather is good, and so is the mood. Today we start to dig the second part of the foundation pit “White Dew”. - So, today is 2 October. Here, we see through the peephole in the fence that excavation work is going on. - And what`re they building? - A foundation pit. - A foundation pit? For what? - A swimming pool for the people. - Not a pool. - Not a pool? But what then? - Only a foundation pit. - But a foundation pit for what? It`s not just dug without a purpose. - This is a large pit. How did you manage? - We had to work. - Work? Maybe for civilian purposes? - For civilian purposes. - So for civilian purposes you dug, if you like. Look, here it was impossible for the excavator to do the job, but you did. - A young man. - Sergei. - Sergei, so how did you manage to dig such a huge hole? - With a big close family. - After enrolment, our course was sent on the construction site for the television centre. We dug a foundation pit, and those two weeks were a wonderful time, which I often remember. - This is our foundation pit. - I have dug this foundation pit alone with a shovel in half a day. The depth is two meters. - So, we dig a foundation pit, second day. The first day it was one person. The second day two people. The height of the hole, or rather the depth, is two meters. - So, as promised, we`re digging a foundation pit. - So, my friends, hello! I`ve been hanging out on the foundation pit for a whole week already. In short, I made some order in the cabin. I got a rug the colour of the sky and clouds. I cleaned everywhere properly. I like it. In short, I continue digging this fucking foundation pit. The head is boiling. Put a cup on the head, and - fuck - you can boil it there. - To please the inhabitants: at the foundation pit a beach has officially opened. According to experts, one can bathe and sunbathe there. - Today we have gone to bathe in a foundation pit. Who with? - Well! - With Vitalik! And Nikitich and Sergei were also there. Girls bathe there also. Well, they called us, so… - I made it fast. Who needs it long? Hey, come here. Don`t film on video. That`s not fair. - According to the preliminary version, three coevals played in the street of the villages, not far from a foundation pit. During the game, one of the five-year-old boys fell in the foundation pit filled by water and drowned. - Foundation pits represent a danger not only for children. Today in a reservoir which is close to an inhabited micro-district, passers-by found the body of an adult man. - Details of the tragedy in an artificial foundation pit have emerged. I remind you: on Saturday, 20 April, in 6th Krainaya St, two children broke through the ice and drowned. - I`m not filming you. Dickhead! - This reservoir formed after the demolition of an old building, and until now the municipal services cannot have not erected a fence around the foundation pit, let alone filled it up. - “Where is the school looking? Where are the parents?” This rhetorical question was posed by users of the Internet watching the video. In the city centre, pupils walk on the thin ice of a reservoir of unknown depth. But it is clearly visible: the lake formed in a foundation pit. - 10.02.2017, 16:55. Work on the excavation of the foundation pit continue. - Saturday, 11 February, a holiday. Digging of a foundation pit on the border with the kindergarten “Sun” continues. - The children play in the foundation pit. The workers forgot to remove the ladder. - Wait. I`m left here. - Eight years ago, on this place they tried to build a cafe, having seized half of the territory of a children's playground. Of course, the project folded, but they forgot to fill the foundation pit and remove the fence. All these eight years the inhabitants, including families with children - and clearly children are very curious and want to see what`s behind the fence. However, this curiosity may be dangerous to life and health. - Dear Vladimir Vladimirovich! Hello! The citizens of Kiselevsk, Podzemgaz Area, turn to you. Look, where we live! From here to the dump is less than 300 meters. Dumps surround our houses on different sides. It`s no longer the town Kiselevsk, but a place in the foundation pit between these sections. THE FOUNDATION PIT - I think I`m not the only one to release these addresses, to write to you and ask something. I suggest that anyone with access to the Internet, who has a video-camera on their phone, should make such addresses. To express their opinion in relation to this power, to their attitude towards us. Express your views publicly. I thought that my participation makes no difference. What will it change in the country? But I wish to participate, and how else? I`m far from the Kremlin. If I were closer, I`d probably stand there with posters, around the Kremlin, up and running all day. - Your administration and your friends from the Russian law enforcement have got me with their criminal activity; they got me - a poor citizen and native of the Russian Federation, an invalid and physical cripple, to such a degree that, unable to take this disgrace, have decided to address you with a video posted on the American YouTube site, which allows all liberal and fair citizens of the world to disclose the criminal activity of a state where human rights are infringed. - I`m an invalid since childhood. For my entire life we never received treatment in a sanatorium. At the same time, some people manage to get it every year. Tell me please, how are sanatoria vouchers issued? It`s just that I`m not convinced that it`s possible to be so unlucky that your turn never comes. - Go into the street, take a breath of fresh air: I can`t do that. On the advice of the doctors, I should do walk every day. There is no ramp at the entrance, it`s construction has been refused, suggesting instead that I use a piece of plywood which is stored in the basement. The keys are with the senior house manager. So that means: when I want to go out, I have to let her know that on such-and-such day at such-and-such time I`ll go onto the street, that she should open the basement and get the piece of plywood of 2 square metres. - In June 2017 I addressed the president on the hot line with the request to set up an electric lift at the entrance to my house so that I could go into the street independently. Today, in May 2019, I still have no lift and no funds for purchase or installation. It`s already 2 years that I`m a prisoner of my own apartment and cannot get out. - Vladimir Vladimirovich, help me please, nobody else will. We have a problem here in St Petersburg. It`s your hometown, look. One streetlamp is on, and the second is not. Vladimir Vladimirovich, our entire neighbourhood appeals to you, only you can help us. We stand on our knees. Vladimir Vladimirovich, light up the second streetlamp. - I want to, I ask, please. Turn things back so we have these miniature bottles. Yes, I just ask you, dear. I ask you, ask, ask. I will even cross myself. Please, let these miniatures come back. These people who died there. They died from "Hawthorn", rather than this medicine. I ask you, if you are there to enlighten us, I will even vote for you. And for your friend … what was his name? - I ask for your help, as my anniversary is coming up soon. I`m tired of this awful mockery. Help, for God`s sake. I very much ask again for your help because tomorrow I`m going to be 45 years old. - I urgently ask for your help, I`m tired of this awful mockery. - Help me, for God`s sake. I`m already tired. God may help you, dear president of the Russian Federation. «President Putin, protect a disabled veteran!» - Hello! Why are you standing here? - Here, look, I`m tired of talking. - Let`s. No… - Here, take this! - So, wait. - Take it. That`s why I stand here. I`m too tired to speak, you understand? Many people approach, but I`m just one. So I tell people my trouble through this thing… So let's say you appear on YouTube. - Maybe Putin will see you? - Me - on YouTube? What? Who? - Well, you`re addressing Putin. - Yes, Putin, may he fuck off! - Go to hell. People want weapons, shit. The State Department, shit… Europe, what Europe? It`s your government, your fucking laws that make everything happen, shit. Do they pay such big salaries, shit? Do they write those laws, shit? People get 5,000, pensioners have 8,000 and pay 5,000 rent. Grandma lives on 3,000. Son-of-a-bitch. - Go to hell. I hate all your lousy shebang. You`re no power, you no government, you don`t represent my people. I want my children to know, irrespective of the consequences coming from this gangster regime. They have to know that their father disagreed with this fuckup, which dishonours my country and led my people to poverty. - You sit there, shit, shifting millions. Scumbags. You should be put against a wall and shot, you fucking pederasts. I don`t know, fuck, the people probably support this, and other people share that opinion of you, son-of-a-bitch. About you, fuck, about your fucking party, the pederast United Russia, those motherfuckers. All those fucking pederasts. So fuck, Vova, soon the fucking people will rise, and you son-of-a-bitch will be right at the front of those motherfuckers… - Tell me where to go to get a flat with conveniences. So I don`t need to wash in an outdoor basin. So that everything`s inside the home. So I don`t have to use an outside toilet. Because my legs don`t work anymore. It would be nice to live like a human. - What kind of teeth are that? I can`t get my teeth fixed. There`s nothing at all! What kind of life is that? I intend to live long. I swear, when both of you`re dead, I`ll come to your graves and pour donkey`s piss on them. You deserve no better. - I have a question for you: will we pensioners live until your following elections? Question mark. - If in the near future the hopes of pensioners will not be satisfied, my next video address will be sharp and crushing. - All my inheritance I carry with me. Here, my trousers! Here, my galoshes! After surgery I cannot even buy myself shoes, because I have no money to order them. Buy and wear I can`t, because my foot doesn`t fit in. In this poverty I live, comrades! Who`d have known? I`d better not be living in this Russia! - They steal and steal, never satisfied. They gave money for the road, and it was stolen. There is no road. The houses are rotten. We were privatized, even the roof to cover… everything collapses. Neither water nor light. How do we live? We live since 1946, in general … Volodenka, dear sonny, please come! - We send you a letter by this unusual route, because by the usual route - electronic and postal - our letters don`t reach you, unfortunately. So, we send this letter with the fair wind. Good luck! Hurrah! - Why make an address on the Internet? Because I went to Moscow four times, once hitch-hiking via Nizhni Novgorod, let`s say. Without money, without anything, with empty hands. - Talk to me, Putin, I want to tell you. About fairness and stability, and how to get rid of corruption. About equality and brotherhood, about the slavery that there is in Russia. About the court, hospitals and prison, about banks, schools and petty intrigues. I tell also about laws, and disorder at the police, about the patience of people and about the limit of patience. - Well, Vladimir Vladimirovich, I`m ashamed for you. For the ministers you appoint. When they say you`re not to blame for anything, that`s nonsense. In fact, under the Constitution we have a Presidential Republic. That means: under every law adopted by the State Duma stands your signature. So you bear the responsibility for the implementation of every law. And if I`m told “Vladimir Vladimirovich can`t”, And if I`m told “Vladimir Vladimirovich can`t”, - Here, you help many countries, you shift big money. We thought we`d get a top-up on our pension, but you take even more from us. For the rubbish, that`s ridiculous. Help me at least. I`m not asking for a new house or such, just bring the gas line here. So it will be easier with the children. - I`m a mother of seven children. We are all homeless. You recently said that it wouldn`t be bad to raise the birth rate. A third child… and I have seven. So I have four too many? Should I do something about them? Put them in a sack and drown them? - We`re simple people, we`re tired. What do you want? In the world there are nowhere so many homeless people as here. You have robbed everybody. How much can you rob us? How much can you take from us that we don`t have? Where give birth? You answer this question. Where? - I can find neither a home, nor help, nor protection. What should I do? The children suffer, they are now with their father. He has again collected them today from kindergarten and from school. And who knows what`s going on there. - I have a small daughter, she`s 9 years old. My husband beats me. I repeatedly called the police, no measures were taken at all. They came, took him away, and after two hours he came home and continued beating me. - We know without you that we live badly. You see nothing beyond the Moscow Ring Road. What life we have. You pull gas pipelines for thousands of kilometres: a southern stream, a northern stream, and we have half the country without gas. People heat with fire wood. - A cylinder of gas costs a thousand! For your people! 1000! They`re in uproar in the villages, in settlements! 1000 for a cylinder of gas when salaries are zilch! What are you doing? Where are you heading? For your own people there`s nothing. - Explain to me, please, the rise of these prices. You say I`m not an economist, don`t understand a fuck about fucking futures. But somehow in my pockets no fucking futures have been added. - Shitty Putin, pederast and thief. When will this end, shit? How much can we take? I`ve been working half a day. I made 500 roubles. I don`t know whether to refuel or what. I went for lunch. Now I don`t know what to buy for the remaining 100 roubles: bread or a cord with soap. - Volodya Putin, thank you for raising the gas prices. I`m now going to buy a car with a diesel engine. I`ll take some diesel at work and go free of charge. A freebie! You`re a freak, shit. For this pot, I gave you every month 8,000 for gas, you freak. And now I`ll not give a kopeck, freak. Dig yourself a grave. Mongrel, shit. Fucking beast, shit. Die, you beast. - You suck the gas, the wood, the oil from here. - Here, just look… - You suck the gas, the oil, the wood. Why the hell is the light here dearer than in Moscow? Why the hell do we pay the same taxes as you do in Moscow? You plough and plough... And you earn a fuck. Once a year you go away somewhere nice, in the best case. And if you don`t go anywhere, just keep chewing. And you start some nonsense, fuck. You`re humpbacked. - So where do you go off to if you do? - Fishing. - Ah. We go fishing to forget about your anarchy, all your… which you create. We go fishing, we have a rest. We don`t hear about politics, we don`t hear your sweet speeches, how clever you are, how smart, how you skate and how you hit he puck. You got us there, too, shit. On fishing also. You shouldn`t take a fishing tackle in your hands, shit. What can you take? Well, next time we`ll take axes, shit, pitchforks and scythes. I don`t know. Take AKs assault rifle? Anyone has AKs? Take to the AKs! - 40 % of the world`s resources are in Russia. But we Russian are worst off. More precisely, 70 % of Russians survive. Where are you taking is, Putin? Where is the subsoil? Where do you sell it? Where is the way out? Why do we not see percentages from the sale of resources from Russia? Servant of people, VVPutin, I have a question to you personally: Where does all this disappears? - Say, Volodya, why? Russia is, in fact, rich in resources: diamonds, oil, gas, gold. So why`s all that just for a bunch of guys? Would it not be fair to divide the riches evenly, amongst all people living here? - We, the inhabitants, were driven away from our great land they set fire to the taiga so there would be no hunt. The employees hide their faces under black masks, poke their guns in people`s faces, and say: “you, narrow-eyed, won`t live here anymore, this is no longer your home.” - The local authorities call the natives of Sevastopol invaders. We have been stripped of our native soil. We ask you to help and sort this out. - Putin, hurrah! - So however much money we spent, we don`t need a move. We don`t want to live here anymore. This program has beaten off the desire to live here. It turned out that we wasted almost half a million roubles. To transfer things. The immigrants must not be offended. Let them pay us back our money. We want nothing: just repay our money. On the basis of our receipts. - Look, they give it to everyone… to this … Depardieu they gave it, to all sorts of stars. Whoever wants it: even Papuans and Blacks, they issue passports. To the Abkhasians, the Ossetians. They don`t want it? They catch up and force it on them! And me, a Russian person born in Russia, in the Irkutsk area, 30 years of age, they do not want to give a passport! I don`t understand that. - The citizens of Omsk have been in doubt for some time whether Omsk is part of the Russian Federation. Maybe it is a separate state of Taiga Shaitan, the city Sneeze-on-the-Law. The Constitution and the laws of the Russian Federation find no application on territory of the city of Omsk. - Quite recently, United Russia suggested that Barnaul should be renamed Putingrad. But Biisk decided not to lag behind this idea and offered their name to our city: "Putinfuck". - Last year, when I learnt that sanctions were inflicted on the country, I decided to help the homeland and I opened a farm. I counted on support and help from the area. But they made it clear that nobody here needs my business. Here is what we decided at a meeting. - On our last money we bought 600l diesel. And decided to burn the field. - Our region is in depression. According to statistics we, in the Volga Federal District, take the last place in terms of salaries, pensions, and income per capita. - The most important indicator for the condition in our Republic is that, for the second year, the death rate is considerably higher than the birth rate. - At present our city of Rubtsovsk is dying out, there is no work in the city. The average salary is between 10,000 and 15,000. - From four large industrial factories that once were in the city, nothing remains. Hence the low wages, no roads, a huge amount of money is needed for a road, which the city will never raise. Here you see the remains of the tractor factory. - They suffocate our factory. Don`t let us work. First they disconnected the water, so we made a borehole. They stopped the steam, and we put in a boiler-house. They stopped us from using the canalisation, illegally. The question is being decided. Now it`s doomsday. Literally. - I have asked that this video should reach you in whatever way. My phone battery is already down, so I`ll say as much as I can manage. I`m on the site of the plane crash of the АN-148, in which my mum died; there are no workers in the field, now a car has arrived, but they don`t stop us. Anyone can go here, fragments of the plane and of bodies lying around. I personally have seen human ears. There`s already a stench here, you understand what. It`s not human. - We are the only family in Russia living on the flight path of the airport, in the radar-tracking zone which is lethal for the health of my children. - In the room where children sleep, the ceiling looks like this. This has all been soaked in water. Along the curtains, the pipes, the sofa, the bed, the floor: the marks from the water are visible. In the winter the children did not daylight, because the windows were covered with blankets. I have awards. From the municipality, I went to a camp. - There are seven families left. As if expelled. Now our authorities, our officials tell us: “we relocated those who needed to be relocated, and the others can go on the street.” and the others can go on the street.” - When I left this building, a complete stranger turned to me. He said: “Please turn to the page of the President, and he will help you.” Vladimir Vladimirovich, help please. We are now on the street. We bought this apartment in December 2014, and now they say that it is due for demolition. Second turn for demolition. What unscrupulous people you all are. - My name is Dima. - I`m Masha. - We live in the city of Serpukhov. When I was not even born, my mum and dad bought an apartment in this place in Chernyshevsky Street. Twelve years ago, along with another 186 families. Already three times we`ve been cheated with the support of the regional authorities, and now they say that they won`t give us the apartment at all. - You say: raise the birth rate, and here grows already the fourth generation of children. In insanitary conditions and ruin. We live in a ghetto. The basements of the houses are filled with water and filth, in which the water pipes run. The apartments on the ground floors are damp, and the floors decay. On the first floor there`s leaking roofs and dampness. We no longer speak about a playground, which has been made by the locals. - During a time of anarchy reign chaos and ruin. And this is 50 km from Moscow. We ask for your assistance. - People here speak with you who are not. Our houses are not registered and not recorded on maps. Our money has dissolved into thin air. We too, probably, soon begin to disappear. - We are invalids, pensioners, students. That is: not a protected part of our population. With tears I ask you: help us. We are 157 people who are neither debtors nor shareholders. We have become homeless. - Are you not ashamed as a human being when your citizens kneel before you? - Mister President, help us! - During the recording of this video address of the inhabitants, the police arrived and demanded that we all disperse. Many people recorded this on cameras. The police do not allow us to record a collective address. What kind of democracy can we have in this country after that? How is it possible to address the president with an official address? If the police, here stand people in uniforms, do not allow you to record a video address. - We were on duty every day in the streets of the city, but when we retired, we were outside the law. Why are we and our families now homeless? We are not protected from the state, which we protected for many years. - I have no accommodation of my own, I live in rented accommodation. When I registered for the waiting list, my torn was 658, and for today this has not changed. In the Amur Region two subsidies are issued per year. Let`s do a simple mathematical task. My turn is 658, we divide over 2 grants per year, and the figure is 329. I need to live a minimum of 329 years. - I`m on a hunger strike for the 15th day. Nobody does nothing. - In this connection, I have one question: has the Russian Federation sentenced me to death by hunger for having defended my legal rights? Or my demand that the laws of the Russian Federation be applied to me also is absurd and impossible? - How it is possible to live and not have anything? With a title, a pension, awards, and as a result being without accommodation. At this stage I can show the living conditions in this hostel. The radiators are cold, no heating. I turned a small part of this room into a kitchen. There is an electric stove. And a hall. One tap for everything, nothing works. The condition of the hostel is such that everything falls apart. Here I painted myself. The corridor, I fixed it. Here is damp, everything falls apart. Here the same. That`s already the fourth floor. Here the fungus has eaten the entire wall. I light it up so you can see better. Here the third floor. Here the second floor. The same. The cables: everything`s overgrown with moss. Everything drips and falls apart. You see. Here the first floor. And more of the same: everything falls apart, moss, fungus all over the walls. Here we reach the ground floor. Here in the basement the hostel is filled with water. And you can imagine the depth. Here I take a stick. To the waist, definitely. There is a step. This is the depth. And over there is even more. - Today on 15 September, for 3 weeks a vast pool of excrements from the area has been forming. The pool is already around 100m long, and 30-40 metres deep. "Putin, we sink in excrements" - We want to put this information online so that everyone knows via YouTube but the network is not what the municipal administration says it is. What should we expect? What help will the state give us? Because on the restoration of houses, which you see on photo and video, a lot of means were spent. We have no other requests. We ask for help. - I cannot call you “dear”, because I have no respected, and respect needs to be earned. In my eyes you are a pest and an enemy of my country; you have done nothing good for my country. In my country there`s ruin and poverty everywhere, and I have this question: you will you resign? We have had enough of you. - Leave, you fool. Leave, before it is too late. Leave quietly, hide until the end of your days and savour on your riches. You have enough already. East up quietly while you`re alive. Even if you die a natural death, tens of generations of Russian people, if not hundreds, will curse you. And you, Putin`s supporters, I`ll tell: You`re jagholes. - We need our Internet. What the Americans do is mindboggling. At any moment they can cut us off from the Internet. Vladimir Vladimirovich, I join you. I want to ask you to speed up the process. If they suddenly disconnect us, we cannot decide any question. We ask you to speed this up. Listen to us, please! - You`re a beast. A beast. A beast. How dare you laugh at those who feed you? If the people don`t work, and feed you, you won`t have a full trough. Why do you forget those who feed you? You`ve gone bonkers. - So, beat it, lovey. Enough is enough. You`re spinning, keep your horse in the stable. All right, we forgive you all this, take it and go. Leave Russia. - God forbid you end up like Gaddafi, we`ll tear you to pieces and not just: into small pieces. What do you do with our children? Why do you cripple them? Do you really get pleasure out of that? Well, you already are a multi-billionaire. How much money do you need? How much power do you need? I don`t think you`ll finish your term the normal way. You already have the entire country against you. Leave voluntarily, that`s what I want to say. - Listen, Putin Vladimir Vladimirovich, go home, go to your wife, take care of her, leave Russia alone. Leave it, you`ve already been in power almost 20 years, you don`t give anyone the air to breathe. - I got sacked today without reason. They simply dismissed me. For having appeared on TV and barked at the President of Russia, Putin, accusing him of corruption and kindling a war. So, Vladimir Vladimirovich, go to hell! With your rotten system and with the police state, with your dictatorship. Down with dictatorship of power! Long live freedom! - I beg you, release me, these pricks don`t want to. Please, Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, release me please. Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, release me please. I can`t, release me. Why the handcuffs, bitch? - Please, let out me from prison, I don`t feel well. I simply want to die in the circle of my children and family. - In the press there has recently been some propaganda against my husband. There was slander, the condemnation of my husband as thief, who steals wood, even though that never happened. He only protects it and works for the good of our country. Why is my innocent husband now behind bars? Why don`t I get permission for a visit? Why he...? - I don`t know where I record my next address: from behind bars; from the windows of children`s home where they threatened to take my children, having stripped me of parental rights? From the fence of our house, where the public prosecutors and inspectors will soon expel us? Or from my husband`s grave? - I beg you by Jesus Christ: give me my child! Bring it back alive! Like all the other boys who are with him in captivity. Sonny, boys, we are with you! We`ll get you out of this mess in any case. If the military leaders don`t go for it, we, your mothers, will. - I`m Sergei Arkhipov`s mum. Sergei, we love you and wait for you. We do everything we can. We turn to you all. Help us. - After two days they brought us a closed wooden coffin. We, the parents, were not allowed to identify the body, they said there was an infection. So who did I bury? I turn to you for the fourth time. I sent you two letters with a pack of documents. I turned to you on the Internet with an Open Letter to the President. And until now I have no answer. How should I, a mother and rural woman, live with such a burden? When you don`t know where your son is… My maternal heart is breaking apart. Help me find my son and return him home. - Let them return our children. I say this on behalf of hundreds of mothers from Dagestan who suffer. Our tears flow in streams. But we are not heard. - How should someone behave who has been forced to admit a crime? Where to turn so that our reasonable assumptions are heard, and not met with a formal reply? Having despaired and lost hope, I turn to you for help. I ask you to help me preserve the life of my child. - When my daughter was detained, she was 17 years old. People in masks and with automatic rifles rushed into our apartment. Without any explaining, they put us all on the floor. They took apart Anya`s room and took away my daughter without explaining where and why. I turn to you, Vladimir Vladimirovich. In the decision of initiating a criminal case against my daughter it says that she opposed you. Do you really have no other enemies except my daughter? My child is not guilty. - Tomorrow is the 1 June. Our country will celebrate the international day of the protection of children. You are the most important in our country. I turn to you a person, who himself was a child and raised children. Help us make our children happier. - My life has not worked out too well. My parents left for Korea. They gave me a gift: they left the house in my name. But we did not have means to do repair. We only did this room. From strong need, from shortage of means, my parents have left for Korea to earn money. But, alas, their plan did not work out. - They don`t do the roads in the village. They should did the roads to villages in the whole country. You should do this. I assume. - I`m 14 years old, I live in Nalchik, I had a kidney transplant. I take tablets, but they give me substitutes. Could you reconsider the law so I get normal tablets? I want to live. - Vladimir Vladimirovich, I want to ask you. Why do authorities in Krasnodar treat children worse than cattle? Why are we compelled to live in basements? And when will this mess end? - When the whole world struggles with terrorism and extremism, our school does not have a fence. The school yard is broken. The old exhausted bus which every day brings and takes half of pupils from nine villages. The other half drowns in the village streets, walking every day to school and back. - Teachers of the Zvenigorod Area are despairing; they took the decision to go on strike. It looks like we`re back in the 1990s. - We are compelled to take a decision on the halt of the educational process from 22 January 2018 until full repayment of the debts to all teachers of our school. - In the 21 century, a century of innovative technologies, our village has no cellular network, no Internet. The problem of gas supplies has ground to a halt. We live without gas, without water, without roads, without networks, without health care. But we cannot reconcile with the fact that we are deprived of opportunities of leaving the village. - There are no roads, no communication, no first-aid post; there`s nothing. Nobody needs a settlement where only pensioners live. - I have expressed criticism about the bad conditions of the roads of our president. After that, a criminal case was construed where I was accused of slander of the management of the Republic and fined 20,000 roubles. - We have two requests: a road and water. As we have no water, but is only brought in. The roads are in a very bad condition. This complicates access, of the fire brigade and ambulances. That is, half of roads do not exist at all. - That is, there are no roads in the region. We ask you for help. Help us make roads. Help us make roads. - Give us a road. - Give us a road. - Our anxiety is connected with the suggested high-speed highway, according to which half of this settlement will be taken down. All these houses have been built with our hands. For us this is no temporary abode. How you think: is it possible to justify the demolition of our houses with the grandeur of the forthcoming construction? - We ask you to assist with the preservation of the settlement where the passages of a site of the southeast road is planned and about the move of the route around the settlement. The given project assumes the demolition of about 20 apartment houses of the settlement, Sacred Velikomuchenitsy Marina`s orthodox temple, and also part of the Bitsevo cemetery. - Help us, help! They try to cut down our forest, poison our bog. We have been on barricades for three months. - All were hiding from us, they said nothing. There were no mosquitoes, no birds in the city! - Acid rivers flow here. Daily: day and night they deliver waste of first and second degree of danger. - We already choke on poisonous emissions. - Sickening smells from this dump have not stopped. Billions of roubles have been allocated for decontamination. Nevertheless, the smells continue to poison us. - I also want to add that because of this stench it is impossible to breathe. The flies devour us. They eat our kitchen garden. Go into the street, especially after the rain, is impossible. Such a stench. In the evening in general you won`t open a window. All the stench creeps into the houses. - There`s such a mood that you don't ant to live at all. But that`s not normal. We live to live and bring benefit to the country; actually, we only struggle with the pest and wreckers who surround us. - I collect plastic; I wash everything, carefully put in a bag. My shed is already full, I don`t know where to put it. In our city there are only 4 containers, which really take rubbish for recycling instead of dumping it. How do you want to organise separate rubbish collections when until now for half a year of your term there is no container: for plastic, paper, precious metals? Where should I put it all? Where should I put batteries, saved over 6 years? I don`t know where to take them, they sit and home and oxidize. - Terrorists have brought 30 000 tons of rubbish, first and second degree of danger. Here, at the source of the river Moskva, where the Moskva-Dnepr aquifer opens, where upstream the Moskva river and to the West of the capital in the reserved Russian urban district. - We, the simple inhabitants of the Russian North, have already said enough: the Russian north must not be a dump. We don`t want that our green region gets the label of a Russian dump. We won't let it be soiled! - We have not a question or a proposal for discussion. We have a request! First: unequivocal closure of the construction of a technopark at the station Shiyes. No compromise on this issue. 96 % of the inhabitants of the Arkhangelsk Region are against the construction of the eco-technopark. - Today, on 20 June, station Shiyes. People walking. We waited for a direct link with our President. Look, how many of us there are! The seaside is not dump! We`ll never allow the Russian north to be spoiled! - Don`t trust what the federal channels say! Here are people who protect their life! The right to live in the pure north! Join us, come to Shiyes! Hands off Shiyes! - We demand and end to this mess! - We want clean air! - Help! - Stop poisoning us! - Hands off Shiyes! - Hands off Shiyes! - Help, Vladimir Vladimirovich! Help! We`re fed up living this way! - Shit, these formal replies, bitch, we`ve had enough! Not a single normal letter here, shit! It`s enough! You`ve soiled the city! Look, we have polygons! An ecological disaster! Finally, neither mayor not governor needs anything. Not the ministry for the preservation of nature. How much do we have to take? I`m already fed up! The president, here is the direct line. I simply ask: send us a normal, adequate official who comes to solve these problems. - I have one specific proposal: you need to take all of us, the deputies of the State Duma, members of the Council of the Federation, the Russian Government, and led by the president send them to Eastern Siberia. - Because your head of the region has done nothing. He has been here many years and done nothing. I`ve removed the head of the Region from his post and appointed a new head. First, he has been in the job for 5 months and works hard. The task is to help him. I ask you, we do everything together. Help him. If you adopt such an approach, we`ll cope with this situation. If there is no such approach, if instead of helping you put a spanner in the wheel and create conflicts, you won`t have jobs and nothing will change. Now is the approach clear? - Venerable Justin Trudeau, we wish to turn to you with a huge request. To consider the question of granting refugee status to the inhabitants of Kuzbass. - We chose Canada because it is very similar to our Siberia. There is a lot of snow, it`s cold. - Perhaps the Homeland is the President and our authorities? How can you be a patriot for one or another who does not notice how we live, what we breathe and what we drink? - Yacenko Yulia Gennadyevna. Kiselevsk сity. One children. - Kiselevsk сity, Malinnaya street. Four children. - Does rubbish really smell like that? - That dump is not far, it`s not burning, her, ours, only the soil is burning. - How many houses are her in all? Where`s the head? - On this site there are 71 houses, right? - Yes - You know, I go to work at night, I have a child, I don`t know where I`m going. - You can`t live in this territory. - Six children. - Five children. - Two children, fourteen grandsons, one great-grandson. - We pushed the programme through and the president approved it. Since 1 January, you know, the program on the used territories and dilapidated houses has started. It did not work for some years. And we started building according to this programme, within the framework of this state program there is serious money. But this money is not enough. -Tell me, please, and we come under this program? - As it stands today, with the current documents and those made out by the previous head of the area, you do not come within the remit of the programme. - People live in difficult times, they have lived here for decades and raised children, and they were raised up by their grandmothers and mums. For us, this is our native land. Some small streets, but this is our house. We need to unite. Because who will if not us? How much can you run away to other countries? How much can you emigrate? - I submitted the application to several embassies, you know? I want to take my four children away from Russia. I understand, we leave, and there are a lot like me. We leave, it will be easier for you, you don`t need anything, you don`t want to help us. We leave, but I take with me four people, worthy people, you understand? - This is our street, two children, four grandsons. - Men … dads - Three children, six grandsons - Kiselevsk сity, Malinnaya street. - Why didn`t he tell his grandsons? - Six children. eleven grandsons - Well, all right, Sanya! All the best, Sanya! - Best to you, dear woman. - Best to you Sanya. - May you happily reach Moscow! - You`re going the wrong way, Sasha! - Greetings to Putin! - Hot and ardent greetings! - They`re on the federal road? - Yes. - In good hope. - And he sits and waits, that dog. - Yes. - Well that`s it. - God be with you! director, editing Andrey Gryazev thanks to: Andrey Mihaylovich Dobrovolskiy Anna Egorova Ksenya Shved translator subtitles Birgit Beumers producer Andrey Gryazev