Transcript for Stand-ins (1997) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [music playing] [gasping] [grunting] [grunting] [grunting] [gasping] [grunting] [grunting] [gasping] [crying] [gasping] [screaming] [music playing] (SINGING) I want to be happy. But I won't be happy till I make you happy too. Life's really worth living when we are mirth-giving. Why can't I give some to you? When skies are gray and you say you are blue, I'll send the sun smiling through. I want to be happy. But I won't be happy till I make you happy too. You owe it to yourself. Bullshit, bullshit. Oh, my part. Bullshit, bullshit. Bullshit. It's all bullshit, Monica. This is Hollywood. Bullshit, bullshit. JACK: The usual? Bullshit, bullshit. Oh, usual's fine. [horn beeping] Bullshit. Oh, my part. Bullshit. Here. You owe it to yourself. [horn beeping] Mm. Pure heaven. Jack, you are a god. JACK: What are you reading? William Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night." Shakespeare, William-- 1564 to 1616. The guy could write his ass off. Well, I'm up for Viola in the Valley. Is that a good part? Well, if you took the trouble to read the rest of the characters' roles, you'd realize that Shakespeare didn't write any bad parts. I can barely understand my own part, Jack. Give me a break. I bet you Bette Davis knows her Shakespeare. [ringing] She doesn't have to. She's already got an Oscar. Ernie's Pagoda Lounge. Sorry, we're closed today-- private party. I don't care who you are. Open tomorrow. Hollywood. Get a load of this. Real beluga caviar. Martha Anne is crazy about it, well, ever since she heard Harlow orders it by the ton from the Caspian Sea, wherever that is. You know you can tell if caviar is any good? When the eggs are large and unbroken. Hey, you know what to put that on? Leave it to, doll face. I trust you, Jack. Around food-- food and mixed drinks. I bet you say that to all the bartenders. Mm, I do. And you can't imagine how helpful it's been. [ringing] MAN: Hey, Martha Anne. We need you on set. JACK: Hey Shirl. Shirl? Shirley? SHIRLEY: Not now, Jack. Here we go again. [gasping] MONICA: Oh, did I serve that lady. I might not be delivered to the world till I had made my own occasion, my love. What my estate is? That's cute, huh? Yeah. Don't fucking know what it even means. (RUSSIAN ACCENT) Get me a whiskey, a ginger ale on the side, and don't be stingy. How you doing, Shirley? How am I doing? How do I look, Jack? Like usual. Like a drowned rat. What's today? JACK: Monday. Oh. Been up for three days. Pills? Mm-hm, and booze and insomnia. You got a cig? Be a darling and do that again. It's hot out there. Insomnia. I know what that is. But what is it? She doesn't know what insomnia is, Jack. It's nothing, honey. Just a bunch of sleepless nights. So? A person can't be expected to know everything. Do you know where Illyria is? Illyria is an ancient country on the east coast of the Adriatic. Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night" was in Illyria. I was in a production once of "Twelfth Night." You were in "Twelfth Night?" What part? Olivia. It's a lead, isn't it? Uh-huh. Uh, one of the leads, yes. SHIRLEY: That was back in my college days on the plains of Nebraska. Oh. Then it wasn't a professional production. SHIRLEY: Who does professional productions of Shakespeare, huh? Maybe someone in England. So, um, what caused the insomnia? You remember that man, Raymond? Raymond, Raymond-- That I was going out with. Oh, yeah. Raymond what's his name? - French. Raymond [inaudible]. Dapper. Distinguished. Rich. Good looking. 23rd best-dressed man in America. Raymond threw me over for another woman. A stand-in? A stunt woman, part-time, over at Republic. Ugh. I'm sorry. SHIRLEY: You're sorry. Heh. If you're sorry-- Caviar? Beluga. MONICA: Yeah, nothing's too good for Martha Anne on her 30th. She's 30 years old today, huh? How nice for her. MAN: Quiet! [ringing] MAN: Quiet! MAN: Stand by for picture! MAN: Mark it. Action. Let's roll a few feet. Cut. [ringing] Get out of that dress, Martha Anne. I can't afford to have it sweated up. We may need it later. Wardrobe, change it for the next setup, will you? We're ready, Miss Harlow. How's life on the set, Shirl? Our set is closed. We're shooting "Conquest." [laughing] Everybody is trying to get a glimpse of Charles Boyer as Napoleon. And Miss Garbo? Contrary to popular opinion, Miss Garbo can be really quite affable. Sometimes, after hours, off the set, Miss Gustafsson-- that's her real name-- and I sit around in our underwear, chewing the fat. Greta cooks up a batch of Swedish meatballs. Jack, Miss Garbo and I have a very healthy relationship. I have a healthy relationship with the woman I work for, unlike some people I could mention. I'm going to pretend you didn't say that. You pretend anything you want. Greta, Miss Garbo with the bashful Valkyrie. Mm-hm. Here, Shirley. You owe it to yourself. Jack. I have such an enormous debt to myself, it would take more than a lifetime to pay it back. Whiskey can do magic for lonely people, Shirl. Whiskey. Morphine. [inaudible] Hi! [cat call] Hi. I'm a stand-in. I'm OK. $16.50 every day. Other girls are on the street, while I'm a stand-in. Life is sweet. Paramount or MGM, Warner Brothers-- all them pay our wages. In exchange, we all look like someone strange. I'm a stand-in, that's my game. I'm not in it for the fame. Don't call me no glamourpuss. I'm a stand-in, marvelous. War in Europe. PEGGY: War in Spain. Newsreels. They give me a pain. Dust bowl, unemployment too. Honey, I got things to do. PEGGY: Wardrobe wants me in a gown. Makeup thinks our hair is too brown. I'm not in some unwashed mob. I'm a stand-in. That's my job. PEGGY: I'm a stand-in. I'm true blue. My profession, [inaudible]. I'm a stand-in. I got class. I'm a lady, bet your ass. I'm a stand-in. So is my pals. We are not your average gals. We're together, thick and thin, proud to be a genuine stand-in. Glad to see me, big boy? JACK: Mm-hm. That poem still kills me. PEGGY: God bless you, Jack. Me and Martha Anne knocked out that little ditty over a couple of dozen Gin Rickeys and some reefer. I wanted to call it, Stand-ins Never Die. Course, she calls it Fuck this Occupation. We never could agree. I brought some comestibles. Comestibles? A lot of them. MONICA: I know what combustibles are, but what are they? Food, babe. Eats. Vittles. MONICA: Oh. Miss Unaware, that's you, honey. MONICA: I'm not so unaware. Aware, even. Will you look at these comestibles? God! It's [inaudible] Do you think I'd show up to my best friend's party empty-handed? I don't think so. I'd better put this all in the kitchen. OK, well I'll help. OK, come on. If you're so smart, what's a Valkyrie? Garbo's bashful Valkyrie. So what is a Valkyrie? SHIRLEY: In Norse mythology, she's the maiden of Odin. She conducts the souls of dead heroes to Valhalla. That's the Viking version of heaven, to you. A Valkyrie is the chooser of the slain. You knew that? No. Norse mythology. Viking heaven. So Garbo's the chooser of the slain. And you have a healthy relationship with the chooser of the slain? I'm in show business, if that's what you're driving at. It'll be your life or mine. And if you're killed, I'll be free. And if I'm killed, it won't matter. And if we both die, good riddance. So? That was Betty Davis in "Dangerous." She won an Oscar for that performance. Did she break off a piece of the gold statuette for you? A foot, maybe? I didn't stand in for all of "Dangerous." During part of the shooting, I was loaned out for another picture. Loaned out? Loaned out? You had a teensy weensy walk-on. "And She Stayed for Breakfast." Was that the name of it? She was there in the morning. She learned from sailors. Best Actress, 1935. She did it with her socks on. When Betty won that award, I was overjoyed. Did you hear me? Best Actress, 1935. Oh, wasn't that the year that, uh, Garbo made "Anna Karenina?" I can't imagine Miss Garbo's ever taken home an Academy Award. I don't imagine she cares. But you do. Garbo's gotten her share of awards. The New York Film Critics picked her best feminine performance. Sounds like a sanitary napkin. That was for "Anna Karenina." The New York Film Critics. Think any of those saps ever worked in the movies? Think again, kiddo. The Academy Awards are voted by people who make movies-- a jury of your peers. Maybe the bashful Valkyrie has no peers. Garbo will get an Oscar. And I mean soon. Do you hear me? Maybe this year for "Camille." Nobody with an ounce of sense thinks that Garbo will not get an Oscar. She'll never get one-- not ever. You're nuts! Is that so? SHIRLEY: You're also drunk. Oh, so now I'm a drunk? You fucking insomnia dope fiend. Since when did the city of Los Angeles pick you to give drunk tests? Macadamia nuts? Came all the way from Redondo Beach. SHIRLEY: Practically imported. Oh thanks, Peg. I could use a nut right now. Been eating caviar all day. Get her. Whatcha reading, doll? "Make me a willow cabin at your gate, and call upon my soul within the house. [inaudible] loyal cantons of condemned love, and sing them loud even in the dead of night. [inaudible] your name to the reverberate hills, and make the babbling gossip of the air cry out, Olivia!" Olivia de Havilland? Who else? Well, the Parsons must be the babbling gossip of the air they're talking about, huh? Of course. See? Shakespeare's not hard when you have the right references. Shakespeare, huh? Knock me over with a feather duster. Yeah, it might be kind of hard, Peg, or haven't you noticed? Huh? Your girth, honey. I'm talking about your weight. I'm trying to keep up with Miss Mae West. Yeah. That's what I mean. It's that Mr. Fields, that W. C. Fields. There's talk of co-starring them in a picture together. It's made her anxious, so she puts on weight. He drinks. He just got out of a sanitarium. He came on the set, he kissed her on the nose, and he pinched her on the behind, and he called her his little bird mare. She thinks he's fucking nuts. It's made her gain. And you're gaining right along with her. That's what I call loyalty. That's what I call keeping my job. MAN: Johnny, get that tent in. JOHNNY: Yes sir, boss. Incoming, right in. [ringing] [inaudible] MAN: Coming through. Martha Anne, the dress! Fuck you! It's my birthday! [humming] [giggling] Didn't anyone ever tell you you should be in Vaudeville? Yeah, sure. I was in pictures at the time. SHIRLEY: But you were in Vaudeville, weren't you, little Jackie Turner? The lively songs and terpsichore of little Jackie Turner. What's terpsichore? Dancing, kiddo. Dancing. Later to be replaced by the lovely sounds of sand dance Jack Turner. Yes. I was in Vaudeville for a while there, sure. You managed three to about 100. To about 100. Did you ever play the palace? Yeah, I played the palace, Peggy. SHIRLEY: In Boise, Idaho. Anything on the radio? Been thinking about dance music all day. Anything to forget about little Jackie Turner. [music playing] Me? You. (ON RADIO) You, Come on, Shirl. (ON RADIO) You never cared for me after I gave my devotion to you. You, you gave the air to me, spurning a love that was honest and true. When I met you, I let you fall into my heart, just to hurt me, desert me, and tear me apart. [ringing] If that's Raymond, I haven't been here. He's always trying to call me up and beg my forgiveness. Ernie's Pagoda. Martha Anne! It's Martha Anne. Hey, where are you? Oh, we're here, just dancing, me and-- yeah, just the two of us. Oh, uh, you coming by? Oh, a drink or two. I'm thinking about making it an early one, blue Monday. Swell, we'll see you in a jiff, kiddo. Did I give it away? Think she had any suspicions? Did she sound a Hollywood 30. 19. Don't you just hate her. No, I don't just hate her. You do just hate her. I believe you do just hate her. SHIRLEY: Oh, you're sounding like a Betty Davis movie again. Martha Anne's birthday, and she sounded so cheerful. We'll fix that. You should have asked her how's Erwin Reisner, the imminent Erwin Reisner, the producer, another lounge lizard. Erwin Reisner and Raymond Dubliet are cut from the same snake skin. Oh, shit. Hey! Do you know anything about morphine? Only that I'd like to try it. Oh, god! She's whiter than Robert Taylor's teeth! Oh, she's on her knees again. She's been there before. Ask Raymond Dubliet. Fuck Raymond Dubliet! She's back. So we're in Paris. It's my first time abroad. And we check into this very ritzy hotel, which happens to be called the Ritz Hotel. And I fall in love with the bidet. So I'm on the bidet, a genuine French bidet, with those warm jets of water spraying their everloving way upward to my heart-- Beautiful. I'll say. Raymond comes back, and I say, "Raymond, if you really worship me, you will buy me something that I can't get at home. You will buy me a genuine French bidet." And he looks at me, and he says, "Do you know what a bidet costs?" And I say, "Raymond, if you really love me, cost would be no object." And he looks at me again, and he says, "I got a suggestion for you, Shirl. Do handstands in the shower." PEGGY: Lord Almighty, you could hurt yourself! He only took her there for an abortion. PEGGY: Sweet Jesus. I'd never have one. Oh yeah? What about that little trip to Mexico? PEGGY: Jack, I think it's time for a Martini. Monica? You ever tell anyone that I went to Paris just for an abortion again I will rip every cheaply dyed hair out of your empty head. Twat! Now I'm a twat. SHIRLEY: Yeah, now you're a twat! Look, Shirley, if this is about Raymond-- What about Raymond? In case you're wondering, I never laid a hand on Raymond Dubliet. Is that so? Yeah. What about Erwin Reisner? You said he wasn't good enough to write in your shoot. Yeah? So I lay plenty of guys I wouldn't let write in my shoot. Now that's an interesting character trait. SHIRLEY: Shut up, Jack. What about Erwin? For the record, I haven't laid a hand on Erwin Reisner, for years. Other body parts? I got stopped this morning for my autograph at Vine and Melrose. This very cute traffic cop said he'd see me in "I'm No Angel" four times. You signed autographs as Mae West? Four times! And he saw me twice in "Klondike Annie." But I thought enough is enough. We had cars backed up half the way to Sunset. Don't you think that's a little dishonest? Dishonest? Lord, no. The way I see it, Mae can't be everywhere, but thanks to me, she can be in two places at once. And the cop? Did he give you the ticket? PEGGY: Sweet blood Jesus, no! He just wanted to gab. He said, (LOW VOICE) I'm surprised you're not in some big limousine. I never expected to see Mae West in overalls driving a Ford V8. So I said, "Fritz." His name was Fritz. Fritz, I donated my limousine to the Beverly Hills Orphanage for the day. And as for these overalls, they were a personal gift from the late Rudolph Valentino. And he swallowed that? He said, (LOW VOICE) you knew Valentino? I said, intimately. It was the only way to know him. So he said, (LOW VOICE) well, wait till I tell the little woman. So I said, you know, you win, Fritz. I gotta go make a movie. And with that, I drove away, and left him standing there at the intersection, admiring his four Mae West autographs. I don't think that young police officer will soon forget meeting someone he believes to be a star. You, uh, you should have signed autographs as Rudolph Valentino. That would have made his day. Peggy can't even spell Valentino. PEGGY: I can't even spell Rudolph. Peg, you have no sense of yourself, no sense of who you really are. JACK: Monica. No, let me finish. Sorry. You completely bury yourself into an entirely different woman's identity, a woman who's carving out her own image and has forged her own successful career. And she can sign her own autographs. You ain't Mae West, Peggy. You never will be. That traffic cop thought I was Mae. I don't see that there was any harm done. Not to him, anyway. Oh. I know who's stand-in you are. Takes one to know one, huh? We're like dogs of the same breed. We've got to sniff each other out. Hey, how'd you like to come to a party? You think I'd fit in? Right down to the slacks. Yeah, you're gonna fit in just fine. What's today? Is it Monday? JACK: Only for 24 hours. I have a birthday party to go to Monday. You're at the party. This is the party, Shirl. Good. I thought I'd miss it. (SINGING) Tramp, tramp, tramp, ze boys are marching. Cheer up, comrades. They come. JACK: Hey, Rhonda. Did you hitch or bus it? - No. My new friend drove me over in her Duesenberg. It's OK. I know you didn't mean it. PEGGY: So much nicer when you're friends. RHONDA: Christ, I could use a drink. JACK: One Martini coming up. Jack, you know what a girl wants. So where is your friend in the new Duesy? Parking. [music playing] (SINGING) Oh they [inaudible] that I couldn't do with plenty of money and you. [inaudible] worry, that money dream, just a [inaudible] buy a lot of things. Hi. I'm Taffy, Taffy Entwistle. Hi, Taffy. This is Monica and Shirley and Miss Peggy. Welcome. Oh, thanks. And the inimitable Jack. I had a sister named Peg once. One Hayworth Martini coming right up. Her real name was Lillian. But everybody called her Peg. Well, mine's Pegine. What happened to her? She died. Oh, I'm sorry. She's in a better place. JACK: You do look like Hayworth. Do I? Thanks, Jack. Here. Anyone that looks as much like Hayworth as you do owes it to herself. I always wanted to look like somebody. Are you from back East like Miss Hayworth? Me? I'm from back nowhere, a little town in Wyoming called Beach City. I never could figure out why they called it that, though. JACK: No beach? None. Maybe they named it after somebody, a Mr. Beach. The local newspaper was called the Sand Flea. You figure it out. I can't. The important thing is you grew up there. TAFFY: The important thing is I grew up to be exactly five feet 7 and 1/2 inches, the precise height of one Miss Rita Hayworth. A million girls come to Hollywood, but I was just right, the right bone structure, the right coloring. I saw every one of her pictures. I was scared silly the day that I got on the Greyhound. Hollywood was like a place out of a storybook. Yeah? What storybook have you been reading? A place with a beach, anyhow. You wouldn't be having fun with me, now, would you, Jack? Doll face? You couldn't pass the physical. I don't mind being the butt of a good joke. I just don't want to be a laughingstock. Oh, you're in the wrong profession, girlie. TAFFY: I don't feel that way at all. I've been here a whole month, and everyone's been so nice. May 6, the day that Zeppelin, the Hindenburg exploded-- If only we could get the bags of hot air here in Hollywood to explode. I know she's Greta Garbo, but honestly, does she had to be so negative? Don't worry about Shirley, honey. She's been up since Friday painting the town bloodshot. You know what I mean? JACK: May 6 to June 6-- barely one cycle of the moon, and you're driving your very own Duesenberg. Barely one menstrual cycle. MONICA: Yeah, Shirley's periods last about 29 days a month. SHIRLEY: Yes, so don't fuck with her. MONICA: Some flivver you got parked outside. That's not my car. I borrowed it from props. From props? Entwistle' an unusual name. Is it German? English. Like, maybe Scotch-Irish or Welsh. Got a little of all of them in me. Yeah, I've had a little of all of them in me, too. Me, too. JACK: Monica's known for her discerning taste in men. That depends on the man. TAFFY: A month's not a long time. And I managed to land a job that's a real plum. Could have happened to any girl that looked like me. Anyone who looked like Rita Hayworth, don't you mean? Oh wait, Jack. I'd rather have a tequila. Make it a triple with a hunk of lime and a fist full of salt. You are a regular cowgirl. Cowboy, you mean. - Damn mirror's cracked. - Who gave you that? Raymond? I wish. He didn't give me crap. Oh, am I shiny? Yeah. You know what it is ride around all day with your tits strapped down under your corset and your hair pinned up on your hat? Standing in is a breeze compared to stunt work out in public. Raymond Dubliet. JACK: Oh god, no. Pardon me. Are you the refined young lady who lured away my gentleman friend? Do you want me to say I am? Thursday night, Raymond and I were at the Brown Derby. He got up to make a phone call. He was calling you, wasn't he? I don't recall receiving a phone call that night. When he came back from that phone call, he was informing me that he was going to throw me over for a horse acrobat at Republic. Walter Pigeon was that the next table. Norma Shearer was two seats away. And I don't mean their fucking stand-ins. He told me how tall you were, all about your hair. He didn't tell me you were so goddamn pretty. So goddamn young. Excuse me. I'm just going to dash off to the ladies' room. Ugh! RHONDA: Taffy! Are you OK? I'm OK. Just don't plan to have children with him. You get back here, Shirley. I'm gonna twist your tits off. Waiting for that. Oh yeah? Ladies, - Please-- - No, no, no, Jack. I just wiped the floor, please! Just sit down. And I'll tear her vocal cords out. She'll never speak baritone again. Come on. (SINGING) Who's hopping in a Honda? She never told her love, but let consume it like a worm in the bud, feed on her damask cheek. She pined in thought, green and yellow melancholy. She sat, like patience on a monument, smiling at people. Is this not love indeed? We men may seem [inaudible]. But indeed, that shows I'm more than will. But still, we may prove much in our vows but little in our love. That's Viola's speech from "Twelfth Night." Everyone in LA knows this fucking play. JACK: It's been around for centuries. SHIRLEY: Viola had a few good lines, but Olivia was really the one who could dress. MONICA: Olivia was the lead. Even in Nebraska, I had gowns that could kill. If you'll excuse me, I really do need to touch up. Think I'll do some touching up, too. Jack! MONICA: Shirl, come out. Shirl, come out. Get out of here, Monica! [slam] MONICA: You're breaking my fucking heart. TAFFY: Jack, you make a fine tequila. I love the way salt tastes on the webby part of your hand. You know, between your thumb and forefinger? What do they call them? The webby part. Let me see your hand. You read palms? I love all that metaphysical stuff. Got a Ouija and everything. Do you believe in reincarnation? Nah. This is it. This is all you're ever gonna get. Did you know that men and women are different? Hell, I grew up in Wyoming with animals. There's no need for the birds and bees talk when you're around sheep and cows and cowboys. No, I mean the hands. Oh. MONICA: See how the index finger is longer than the third finger? TAFFY: You mean the ring finger? MONICA: Yeah. For men, it's generally the other way around. It is? The index finger is usually the same length or even shorter than the ring finger. You read that in Ripley or something. Naw, it's true. Does everybody knows this? I didn't. Guy named Erwin Reisner told me about it. It was this little game he used to play in bed, you know, like morning after? He'd take your hand, and he'd hold it up to his. And then he'd show you how the fingers didn't match up. It was kind of a ritual with him. He'd always do that. You mean every time you slept with him? Hmph, no-- with different girls. Erwin Reisner, huh? Yeah. Remember that name. I guess you knew him pretty well. No. I was 18. Took me right off the 20th Century Limited. Everything I had read or heard about Hollywood was right there, right in front of me, just waiting. And before you knew it, we were playing footsie, and handsie and everything elsie. Ain't that just like a man? Take advantage of a poor, sweet, innocent young girl? Oh, I was. And probably from a good neighborhood. Hell's Kitchen, honey. I wish I were from someplace glamorous, like you. 10th Avenue and 44th? That's about as glamorous as the Argon. There are no party decorations-- no balloons, no streamers, no nothing. Well, 30's a tricky age for someone who's standing in for a 26-year-old actress. 30's a tricky age for any actress. 32, in fact-- 1905. I saw her passport when she hopped down to Havana. That makes her a full six years older than the fucking star she's standing in for. Gosh. Where's Havana? Cuba, honey. Cuba. Were a gent can fix his lady's problems. Oh, that problem. Yep. Oh, god! The sign! Where the hell is Martha Anne? Fuck this. Hey there, blue eyes. How you doing? Don't call me blue eyes. I don't have blue eyes. Well you ought to, doll. One of these days, the Swedish swan is going to need them. Just two words for you, Shirl. Techni-- color. Those two words don't scare me. I'm not afraid of Technicolor, which is one word, by the way. Hm. No? SHIRLEY: No. So what if I don't have Greta Garbo's eyes? Nobody has Garbo's eyes. Calma started by projecting red and green. Technicolor is a process that suits me. Those have always been my colors, red and green. Stop and go. Mostly go. Now our boy Jack here, is living in little Jackie Turner's scope, a process developed at the Palace Theater in Boise, Idaho, a process that only Jack sees, where they take black and white and turn it into a blue riddance, mm, like they did in "A Midsummer Night's Dream." What fools these mortals be? That's why Jack and I will always be friends, because he knows about tinting, and I know about red and green. So don't call me blue eyes. They're hazel. And no. I'm not afraid of Technicolor. [ringing] I'll get it. Quick, it's Martha Anne! Help me put these candles on the cake! Quickly! Ernie's Pagoda Lounge. Oh, it's you. I can't really talk right now. The car is fine. Turn on the radio? Why? All right, all right. PEGGY: OK, for God's sake, everybody, please try to be nice to her. And Shirley, do you think you could pretend to be pleased to see her? Please? SHIRLEY: I'll be good, like usual. MAN (ON RADIO): We interrupt this program for a special bulletin. PEGGY: Happy birthday! MONICA: Hey glamourpuss! PEGGY: Happy birthday! Martha Anne, happy birthday! MAN (ON RADIO): --and one on [inaudible] --opposite Gable in "China Seas." But Kansas City native, born Harlene Carpenter, succumbed just before noon today to a cerebral edema in Los Angeles's Good Samaritan Hospital. With her at her bedside where her mother, and the actor, William Powell. Repeating our bulletin, Jean Harlow, the blonde bombshell of the silver screen, is dead at 26. I need a drink. I just worked with her this morning, you know, on-- on "Saratoga?" Violet-- that's Jean's makeup lady. Sometimes she does my makeup, too. Violet told me that the baby-- that's what Violet calls her-- had a premonition last week sometime. Anyhow, Violet was sponging off her face, and Harlow looked at her, and said, "Violet? I have a feeling I'm going someplace and I'm never coming back." Violet thought she was talking about Palm Springs or maybe even Europe. You ever had a premonition, Jack? My premonitions were all about my Hollywood career. Never coming back. That sounds really final. You think she knew? TAFFY: I believe it. I really do. Who the hell are you? Taffy. I'm Taffy. She's Hayworth's new stand-in. Another one? Harlow never shared any her premonitions with me. Hell, I don't do her makeup. All I do is stand in her shadow. Then I stand in her light. Then I sit down while Harlow does her scene. Martha Anne's my name, honey-- just Martha Anne. TAFFY: Martha Anne's a nice name. You think so, huh? Well, it's a name straight out of Lake Charles, Louisiana. All of us are called by two names down there. It's a part of their French tradition or Napoleonic code or something. But-- In my case, it was different. Three years before I was born, my father had already taken a powder for Panama or some other equatorial paradise, and left mom a pair of twins. There was a fire. Nobody knows how it started. There wasn't anybody there when it ignited, except those baby twins. When rescue workers found them, they thought they were burnt rag dolls. Oh, sweet Jesus. They were my sisters. My mother had been out all night conjuring me up with some truck driver-- was a produce truck, I think. And I was born 30 years ago today-- June 7, 1907. My mother hated me from that day onward. Soon as I could walk, she would drag me through the cemetery, pull me along by the hand through the tombstones. I can still remember how that soft earth would crunch beneath my feet, until we'd arrive at those two tiny matching headstones for two baby girls-- Martha and Anne. My momma would stick my nose in the soft earth of those two tiny plots and say, "Martha Anne, if they hadn't died, you wouldn't be alive." Martha Anne? My momma had christened me Martha Anne. She used to force my hand into the engraving on the tombstones and make me trace their names. "If they had lived, you wouldn't have a soul." She'd make me pray for their salvation, a special prayer she had concocted, offering up my chance at heaven in exchange for theirs, a prayer for their eternal life. I had to pray that my soul would be damned to hell if it meant heaven for Martha and Anne. It was a two-for-one deal. Momma wasn't sure God would buy it, but she kept me praying for 16 years. I don't know what to say. Yes you do. All of you know it. It's like you were born to be a stand-in. MARTHA ANNE: Jack, Harlow's dead, but alive forever in the memory of her fans, a legend, the platinum blonde. Me? I'm really dead. If it wasn't for Erwin, my very own man, a rotten snake, but all mine, I really would think about killing myself. Oh, God! I look like death. I didn't even realize I was crying. This one's going to require major surgery. Back in a jiff. JACK: You think Shirley's right? About what? About me. I mean, all that little Jackie Turner scope. What do you think? Maybe there is some process only I can see. She hit a nerve. Yeah-- the one in her arm. Yes, but in wine there is truth. Think that goes for dope, too? Well, don't they make truth serum with morphine? Suppose I do see things that nobody else can. Sweet blood Jesus, Jack. You're supposed to be the normal one around here. I'm counting on you to hold this mess together until we can all go home and just forget this night ever happened. Jack! Some party, huh? Where's Monica? She went to the valley. She had a callback on "Twelfth Night." Yeah, that's what she said. You think Monica lied about her callback? Oh, maybe. Why would she lie? Because she's a fucking stand-in, that's why. PEGGY: She doesn't always talk like one. Well, no. No, because Monica fancies herself as an actress. She's ashamed of being a stand-in. Viola's a swell part. I played it once, back home at the Neptune Theater. Figures. Say, who was that call you took from? The call. You know the one, the one where someone told you to put on the radio? Nobody. Nobody? Nobody just called and told you to put on the radio? Could that nobody's name be Raymond Dubliet, possibly? Rhonda, please. Well, you told me on the way over, Taffy, that you and Raymond were through. And I've never heard of props sending out Duesenbergs like they were lipsticks. And Raymond has an office on the lot, so-- Come on, Rhonda. You know me. Yeah, I think I'm beginning to. PEGGY: You're new. We could use some fresh blood around here. We used to have Joan Crawford. Ugh. PEGGY: She loved to needle people. I'd sit here, drinking my Martini, doing my nails peacefully, and she'd needle me. Yeah. Shirl finally threw her down a flight of stairs, huh Shirl? Selznick lot, stage eight. You're an unusual girl. Am I? I always wanted to be. You're not half as naive as she pretends. Hey, can I ask you a question? Shoot, honey. What's "Saratoga" about? PEGGY: It's a racetrack picture from Metro. Gable and Harlow and Martha Anne-- maybe they'll try to finish it. It's not finished? It's what the town's saying. TAFFY: Town. Isn't it a city yet? Never will be. OK. So it's not finished. Harlow's not available. What do they do now? Well, if they have most of her closeups in the can, they might be able to shoot around her. And if they don't have all her closeups? They could shoot some over-the-shoulder shots using a double. What would this double have to do? PEGGY: Just stand there and look like Harlow from the back. Would she have to be the same height? I suppose not, for those shots. She could be any height. And she could dye her hair or wear a wig, if it wasn't already platinum. Honey, no one on God's green earth is born with hair Harlow's color. What about the long shots? Those would be harder to fake. You'd need someone with Harlow's frame. Martha Anne can do it. She's in no shape to do anything. She'll recover. Sweetheart, don't even think about it. I'm just gathering information. You're five inches too tall. I could crouch. Your figure doesn't go in and out like Harlow's. It's all curvy like Hayworth's. Just curious. Is Martha Anne talented? She's tried singing, dancing, acting. There's no beginning to that girl's talent. TAFFY: My father used to say that birds don't fly because they have wings. They have wings because they fly. Martha Anne has no wings. I thought so. Did you? Yes. Instantly. How perceptive. You must think I'm awful. But I see a real chance for myself-- a real opportunity. I could be in "Saratoga." I could be noticed. No one's ever going to see me standing in. I could do that my whole life. When I die, they wouldn't even print my obituary. Who wants to read about an ex-stunt girl turned stand-in? But if they put me in "Saratoga," it could lead to something. I'd be the girl who saved Harlow's last performance. I'd be in pictures. I'd be a movie star with my own stand-in. You heard me do Viola's speech. Maybe-- just maybe, I've got wings. I know I'm nothing. But with God's help, and a little luck, I just might rise above my station and amount to something. "Saratoga's" Martha Anne's job. And no one's taking her place. Understand? [music playing] It's gonna rain again. Jack, I-- I need to tell you something. You have a confession to make? How did you know? Just part of the job, kiddo. Just part of the job. TAFFY: Monica didn't go to the Valley for any call-back. That call she got had nothing to do with Shakespeare. Monica's call came from Metro. I think it was the director, or at least one of his assistants. He wants Monica to test for Harlow's replacement in "Saratoga." [slam] Why the hell would MGM hire Monica to stand in for Harlow? They already have a Jean Harlow-- Martha Anne. Platinum blonde, baby blues, strange ass-- besides, she's under contract. Come on, Jack. Let's go inside before we get drenched. Get me a whiskey, baby, ginger ale on the side. And don't be stingy. Where's Rhonda? When Dietrich calls, Rhonda runs. Her master's voice. PEGGY: Are you all right? I'm fine. You're the new stand-in. I remember. I haven't actually started yet. My star's away on vacation. But as soon as she gets back, we're going right into our first film. You have nice skin, nice bones, a good height. You're lucky-- a lucky little liar! Excuse me? Oh, don't get upset. We're stand-ins. We can talk to each other. Have you ever seen Jean Harlow? TAFFY: Um, "Red Dust," "China Seas," "Hold Your Man," "Wife First," "His Secretary," all of them. No, I mean in person. You mean in real life? No. I stood in for her on all of those pictures, every one you named. You know what dead is? Dead is you can't work anymore. Jean Harlow can't work anymore! I'm sorry about Miss Harlow. Well, that's very kind of you to say. You're very young. I'm 19. 19? 19. At 19, I was-- Now I'm 30 years old. You still look 19. MARTHA ANNE: Shut up! Just shut the fuck up! Why did you call me a liar? Right there is a ladies room. And in that lovely little toilet is a window, a skimpy little screen window. Let me tell you something, kid. No one but no one is taking Harlow's place in "Saratoga--" not while I'm alive! Got that? Look, I'm new. I'm just starting out. I don't know anything. Oh, you're starting out and I'm ending up? Is that what you think? No. I'm just confused. Huh. A stand-in, confused? You're very beautiful. I bet you have guys eating out of your hand. No, nothing like that. A boyfriend? I've only been here a month. It would take a girl like you about one hour in this town. I'm here to work. I got a man. He's a perfect bastard. Look, I know you're upset. He's good to me once in a while. When he got me pregnant he took me on vacation to Havana. I'm sorry I said those things before, about "Saratoga." And I'm sorry you overheard. If they're gonna finish "Saratoga," they'll be giving me a ring-- not Monica, not you, not anyone else. Me! (WHISPERING) I'm sorry I offended you. I'd like to be friends. We're stand-ins. Can't we be friends? I'll shake your hand. I'll buy you a drink. Oh! Did you know that men and women are different? See how your ring finger is longer than your index finger? Well, with men, it's the other way around. Their index finger is the same length, or maybe even longer. You're fucking my boyfriend! [gunshot] [gasp] SHIRLEY: Jesus Christ! Oh god, no. SHIRLEY: Oh, my god. Martha Anne! Don't give me an excuse, Shirley. I never liked you, anyway. Martha Anne! MARTHA ANNE: I do like you, Jack. But I got another bullet in here. Don't make me kill you, too. Two bullets like two sleeping babies. Get against that wall, all of you! My mother gave me this gun when I was 16, still a little girl. But that's not how the boys acted. Momma thought I needed protection, a Derringer, a lady-like weapon, two bullets, enough to do the job, two sleeping twins, all snug in their own little chambers, Martha and Anne, snug in their own little coffins. Jean Harlow understood. I'm going away from here, and I'm never coming back. JACK: Martha Anne, don't! PEGGY: Martha Anne, please don't do it! MONICA: I got the part! No! [gunshot] [screaming] SHIRLEY: Monica! [inaudible] didn't need me. Maybe, maybe I'm dead! JACK: Martha Anne! PEGGY: Get me the police. SHIRLEY: Monica. Hey, is there a cop named Fritz there? Gimme that. Yeah, it's Ernie's. We got a bar over on Santa Monica. Yeah, we need an ambulance, a Hearse, a couple of boys from homicide, and the coroners, as fast as you can. Yeah. Best reading I ever did, and no one was filming it. Oh, Martha Anne. [crying] Ow. Monica, you're not going to die. You just got a shot in the arm. Ow. [sirens] - Oh, I'm sorry. - Ow. Ow. OK, we're getting someone. She's all right. [tires squealing] Yeah Ernie, I know the lecture. I know how life is. Yeah, bad publicity. I know. I know murder is bad for business. I still say the Pagoda should stay open. No, I know how it works. No, no, no, no. You talk to him. If he comes to his senses, thank him for me. Ernie, we owe it to ourselves. OK. Sure is dead around here. MONICA: I know. They suspended work for one whole minute in memory of Harlow. 11:00 to 11:01. Mm. So tell me what happened. You should've seen the look on Erwin's face when I walked through his office. Erwin Reisner? He didn't believe that I had the balls to do it. PEGGY: Neither did I. So his secretary announced me like I was royalty, Eleanor Roosevelt to somebody. And I looked him right in the baby blues. I could read his smarmy little mind. (LOW VOICE) What does this bitch want? But it came out, "Why Monica, what a surprise." So I said, "Don't get up, Erwin. I just need a tiny little favor." So I put on my best fuck me pout-- you know the one. I do. Martha Anne needs a lawyer. And you know, Erwin runs with all the big shots. So he gives me a name. PEGGY: You got Martha Anne a lawyer? [ringing] Uh-huh. Well, let me tell you I spent my morning-- at the morgue. Sweet Jesus, it's like a Frigidaire down there. And the morgue attendant was wearing a fur coat. And there she was, Taffy, laying there like a smoked trout. They asked me, "Is this Taffy Entwistle?" All I could do was just nod. That's all it took. She was identified. And no Raymond Dubliet? Not at the morgue, not at the train depot, nowhere-- but he did send two guys to pick up his Duesenberg. Guys like that use girls like us like tissue paper. [whistle] Jack! Jack? What are you doing here? Job interview, [inaudible],, assistant choreographer. Did you get it? Ah, this is showbiz, Peg. I'll believe it when I'm on the set. Oh, ah. Well, I spent the morning at the morgue. Oh, I found this. I found this in Taffy's pocket. "Variety, September 20, 1932-- the [inaudible] actress Peg Entwistle, suicide. Peg Entwistle, legitimate actress who had slight picture experience, was found dead in the hills back of Hollywood this morning by a pedestrian. According to the police, she had evidently jumped off the H on the Hollywood sign. With her was found this note-- afraid I am a coward, and I'm worried for many things. If only I would have done this long ago, I could've saved a lot of pain." Taffy's sister. Exactly. [sigh] What do you want to do? Martini. Let's get a drink! Leave it to me. To Taffy and Harlow. May god welcome them to the kingdom of heaven, for eternal bliss, salvation, and joy. Hey, Rhonda. Hey, Peg. How's Deitrich, Rhonda? Taffy. God, I really loved her. If only I could have been here, I could have saved her. You'd be dead. Yeah, but you ever meet someone, and you just love them? And maybe you have a relationship, maybe you don't-- it doesn't matter. You love them anyway, and you love them forever. You hardly knew her. [cat call] JACK: Mm, wow. Make it a Coke, Jack. PEGGY: She's being a good girl tonight. SHIRLEY: Well, I'm doing it for my health. RHONDA: Health? Shirl, your liver expired with a repeal. And that lovely set of matched hypodermics in your purse? Gone. That easy? Hell. See, first you take a vial of morphine, and then you take a vial of distilled water, and for every amount of morphine that you take out, you replace it with water, and soon it's all over. Well, I mean, except for the retching your guts out and the not sleeping for 72 hours. But I think-- I think more clearly now. And I see better, too. And what do you see? The future, Jack. Let's get out of here. You owe it to yourself. PEGGY: Yeah, Jack. Come on. You're gonna get that job. Come on, Jack. Well, I'm a stand-in. I'm OK. 16.50 every day. Other girls are on the streets. I'm a stand-in. Life is sweet. Paramount or MGM, Warner Brothers-- all of them. Come on, Jack! I'm coming. By, Ernie's! They never did have good Chinese food, anyway. [music playing] (SINGING) I want to be happy, but I won't be happy till I make you happy too. Life's really wroth living when we are mirth-giving. Why can't I give some to you? When skies are gray, and you say you are blue, I'll send a sun smiling through. I want to be happy, but I won't be happy till I make you happy too.