Transcript for Diamond Run (1996) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (dramatic music) (electronic dialing) (phone ringing) (dramatic music) - It's a half carat diamond solitaire set and all. (mumbles) (knocks) - Everybody down on the floor, down, down! Down! (screams) Down, down, down, down, down, down! Everyone down, down! Don't you move. - Don't you look at me. - Stay calm everybody! I'm sure you recognize the scene that's unfolding before you, it is in fact, a heist. You may wanna keep those heads down or find it rolling down the aisle. Let's do it, Bobby. - Get down, I told you to get down! (dramatic music) Don't move, don't even breathe! (dramatic music) - No way man, I'm not gonna call her. - Look, there's a phone booth right over there, would you call her so I don't have to listen to you whine all day. - She's three months pregnant, Cates, she shouldn't be working at all. - Ah, what do you think, she's June Clever? It takes a lot of money to raise kids nowadays. Before you know it they're off to college. You're gonna need all the money you can get. - My wife is not supposed to support the family. - Lianne knew the score before you were married. I think we've been stood up. - You know, I hate it when she goes away mad too. - Call her. - All right, I'm gonna call her, you got a quarter? - Gladly. - [Dispatcher] Base to 112, come in Cates. - Cates here, what do you got? - [Dispatcher] We got a tip on a jewelry heist at 56 and 1st, sounds like your boys. - Yeah, we're on our way. - I guess I'll call her later. (engine revs) (dramatic music) - Yeah, we're clear. - Hit it Bobby. (dramatic music) - [Reece] What time was it that that last heist went down on lower East Side? - 11:30. - What time is it now? - 11:35. - [Cates] Holy smoke, these guys are either geniuses or real stupid. - They better be geniuses 'cause if I've been chasing idiots for three years, I'm gonna quit. - All right, everybody, isn't this fun. For the next few minutes now I want you think of us all as one big family. Stay calm, we'll be here a few more minutes, then we'll be out of your hair. Isn't that pretty hair, nice shoes, Italian? What size? What size, asshole? - Nine. - Whoops, not my size. (dramatic music) (alarm rings) - Whoa, relax, relax, it's just Megan, relax. What, cops, where, shit. We gotta be out of here, let's go. Alternate extraction, I need it now. Everybody, come on, let's go, we're out of here. - You ready? - I'm ready 24 hours a day. - [Ronny] Everybody go, come on! - You guys get out of here, I'll take care of these pigs. Come on you bastards, come and get me! (gun fires) - What? Extraction, it'll be very messy around here in about five minutes. - Bobby go, come on, let's move it! Move it, they're on us! (alarm rings) Go! Jeff, you hold the power, man. (gun fires) (grunts) (gun fires) - Are you okay, you okay? (dramatic music) - Shit. (hollers) (gun fires) (gun fires) (electronic dialing) (bomb beeps) (climactic music) (bomb beeps) (loud exploding) (police sirens wail) - Cates, Cates, Cates! Give me your radio, officer. Cates, get back here, what the hell happened, I've got a jewelry store robbery, the destruction of an entire building and it looks like your heading for coffee and where in the hell is Reece? (slow dramatic music) (cries) - Bad news Mr. Walker? - We didn't get the stones, Mr. Sloan. - I seriously hope that you're kidding. - The police showed up, there was a shootout, we had to blow the building. Ray went down, Ronnie was shot too. - All clean? - Yeah, the cops don't have anybody but there's no sign of Bobby. - Bobby? - He was holding the diamonds. - Are you telling me that Bobby never got out of the building. - Well, I don't know but somebody must have tipped the police about the heist. - And you think that Bobby gave us up. - I'm checking a few things but- - Okay do you remember before we made our arrangement, I warned you and your men of the consequences of failure (indistinct). - Yes you did. - Don't think because of the success of our arrangement that I'm growing soft on this result in anyway whatsoever. - I understand. - Good. (dramatic music) - No, no, Charles, they know, our cover's blown! (hollers) (dramatic music) (explosion) (sirens wail) - What happened out there, Jim? - For Christ's sake Doane, this is the men's room. - What the hell happened? - We were tracking jewelry thieves. - Jewelry thieves. Are you still working on Charles' murder? - Not really. - That was three years ago. - We had a tip there was gonna be a heist from a reliable source, I thought. - So what happened to Reece? - The source went sour, dispatch called, they were are perps but on the wrong side of town. - Reece? - He's dead. One of the thieves shot him during a heist. They had the building rigged, I had no choice, I had to leave him. - So, he's still in the building or what's left of it. - He was dead before I left him. - So, what they took down the whole building just to cover their tracks? - Looks that way. I've been telling everybody all along, these guys are ex-military. - Well, from what they found out they know what they want. I mean, they didn't touch anything in the cases, they went right to the vault. - With military precision, I'm sure. - They didn't touch anything in the fault either, they left it all alone except this little black case that was in there. The jeweler, he didn't know anything, so I checked with the insurance company and the records said that that little black case contained $100 million worth of diamonds, fresh in from South Africa. - Then we were set up. - Set up? - Sort of, it's more like the thieves were set up. I mean, we've never been that close before, then all of a sudden there's a tip. - No, I checked with dispatch, there was no information, it was an anonymous call. - Right. - Jim, look stay out of this, this is my case. - Well, that's what I did last time and look how well it went. - Jim, go home. Two dead partners in three years. Internal affairs is gonna get on your- - Cates, Cates, where the hell did you go? Who the hell do you think you are in leaving the scene like a- - I went to tell Lianne. - Listen, Jim, I'm really sorry about Reece. - I spoke for the- - But you're off the case, you know that. - Standard procedure. - Right, go home, you need a rest. There's going to be an IED investigation. - I know the drill. At least we recovered the diamonds. - No, they weren't found. - What? - Where are the diamonds? - Walker, I don't know, Ronnie panicked, he said, "I'm out of here, the cops are everywhere," he grabbed the diamonds and ran. - So if you panicked, why didn't you pick the stones up? - Because I went the other way, the cops were on my ass too. - So you both panicked. - Answer him! - No, I went the other way to try to draw the cops of off them, give them a chance to get out of there. Hell the diamonds are probably still there somewhere. Walker, Colonel Sloan's made me feel like I have family here. I got no reason to lie to him, I got no reason to lie to you. - Unless of course, you stole the stones. - Shut up. - Walker. - You see Bobby, I was shot in the leg in Vietnam. In so much pain I couldn't get up, we were caught in an ambush. Our helicopter pilot was killed, it was a mess. Shots being fired all over the place, people screaming, total madness. But before I knew it, I was in that helicopter. And you know why, because Ron picked me up and carried me through all that crap. So, if you think I'm gonna believe that ridiculous story, well then, I must not have your full attention. Now, (grunts) do I have your full attention now? (machinery running) - Why did you change the location, I was getting worried? - So, you got them? - Yeah, I got it. Do you have my information? - I'm sorry Megan. - It's okay, Bobby, I don't blame you, it's Sloan who's gonna pay. - They know. - What? - They're onto us, use the disk. - What? - Run, Megan, run, run! - Get the broad, get the broad! (hollers) - Run! (gun fires) - That's for Ronnie, and this is your last time cruising the vault. (dramatic music) (hollers) (grunts) (climactic music) (dramatic music) - Okay Cates, thanks for lunch but your time is up. - Sam, I'll just be another minute. - Hey come on, you know I can get in really deep for letting you look at these tapes. Besides, Sarge is looking for you. - Tell her I'm not here. - She's got a murder victim, matches the description of one of your thieves. Cates did you hear me? - What? - I said she needs you to make an I.D. on one of the guys that may have killed Reece. - Yep, that's one of them. - Are you sure Jim? - No doubt, anybody see anything? - No, but we found a can of mace down at the other end of the mall. - You got anything else? - No, Jim, this is it. I mean, it's been years but that's really all we have. - Brilliant police work Doane. Are those cameras on? - Yeah, we have it, they're collecting the tapes now. - I'm off. Loss of the diamonds is really disturbing me. You have good news, I hope. - Bobby double crossed us, I had to eliminate him. - Are you sure? - I was very persuasive. He gave up some woman he was working with apparently she still has the diamonds. - And you don't have this woman do you? - Not yet. - Who is this woman? - I'm not sure but she was way out of Bobby's league. - And you think this woman planned all this. - Perhaps. - Well, you have connections with the police, why don't you find her? There was this law firm, you see and they were looking to promote a new partner. But they had to come up with a rather ingenious test to try their loyalty. So they asked the candidates to come back in the morning with their wives, told them to keep the wives outside. And the desk they had this pistol, plus it was loaded with blanks. They said to the fellow, "Look, we're really thinking about promoting you to full partnership in this firm but we want you to prove your loyalty to us." He said, "Well what do I have to do?" Said, "Well we want you to take this gun, go outside and shoot your wife." Well the fellow was appalled by this. He paled, he stood up, he broke out into a sweat and he said, "I can't do that" and he left. They called the second candidate in, they asked him the same thing. And the fellow said, "What do I have to do?" He said, "Well you gotta take this pistol, go outside and shoot your wife." Of course he had the same reaction, he got up, he paled, he broke out into a sweat and he said, "I can't do that" and he left. They called candidate number three in. Told him the same thing, the guy never dropped a beat. He said, "Sure of course." And he picked the gun and he walked outside. A few moments later they heard three shots rang out. And then a loud scuffling noise. When he came back into the office, of course the senior partners was sitting there laughing at the joke they pulled on him. And they said, "How did it work out?" He said, "The damnest thing happened, the gun was full of blanks, so I had to strangle her." (laughs) Now that's loyalty. Jeff will you give me those bullets. - Yeah sir. (bludgeoning) - You know I was kinda wondering why you were putting with a nine iron. - You're running out of men, Walker, next time you screw up, you're gonna have to suffer the consequences alone. - There won't be anymore screw ups. But I took out Cates' partner at the heist, so he may turn into a slight problem. - Did he see you? - No. - Well you know how to deal with Cates and the woman, once you get the stones do what you do best, incinerate her. - I had such a great time, thank you both for a wonderful birthday. - Hey I never pass up the chance for a free meal. Not with my favorite sister and brother-in-law. - Typical Raines girls ordering lobster. - Hey you did pick a good one, sis, I mean, the guys I go out with don't even spring for dinner. - Sarah, thank you so much for the necklace, I love it. You are so creative. - I only got one big sis. Now where are we going, it's early, how about a club? - Oh no, no way Sarah. It's been a long day (indistinct). - Come on, totally. - Forget it, I can't do. There's no way. - Oh no, I forgot my pick at the table, I'll be right back. - I'll get it. - No, no, I got it, I'll be back. - So, Rick, do you really think she liked the necklace? - She loved it, Sarah. (engine starts) (car explodes) - No, no, no, no! (car explodes) (gasps) (cries) (slow music) (car engine revs) - Hurry up, hurry up. - Let me see, I gotta get this right so it'll explode with the ignition. - Those cops, toast. - I got it, Jim, this is really weird. - What do you mean? - The lady in this photo is dead. - Dead, sure doesn't look dead to me. - The photo matches a Megan Marlow. According to our records, she and her husband were killed in a suspicious explosion two years ago. Anyway, she was married to a Rick Marlow, big time lawyer. Whoa, they were loaded, penthouse on 90th and Second, houses in the Caribbean, properties all over the world. Only living relative is Sara Raines, her sister. No known address on file. But someone is still paying taxes on the property in Vermont. - There you go, Jim. - Whoa, could use a zoom in on her neck. - Sure. - Right there, the necklace. Are those letters? - Look like two M's to me. - Two M's. I'll be damned, Megan Marlow. Where did you say that property was? - Up in Vermont. - Vermont. (dramatic music) - Hey where's Cates? - He just left, I think he was headed for the impound garage. - Jesus. (dramatic music) - Cates. - What? - Where the hell you going? - Home, you just got done telling me I had to go home. - I just grilled Sammy, if you think you're following this case to Vermont forget it. (dramatic music) - Look, I'm gonna take a couple of days off, I need it after all that's happened. - Just don't make it a Vermont vacation, this is Doane's case now. - I'm not gonna do anything stupid, I need a couple of days for myself, that's all. - I know what you're thinking, you're thinking you're the only one with enough passion to crack this case, well forget it, you're burned out. I've seen it before. You go anywhere near this case, you'll hurt our chances of getting any real justice for Reece. - Real justice, I haven't seen any real justice since I joined the force. - The system works eventually Cates, leave it alone. - Thanks for the advice. - I'm giving you a warning now, take it. (dramatic music) - Cates, stop, Jesus, I almost missed you. - What's wrong. - I know you're going to Vermont. - No I'm not. - Yes you are, I know you. This is the file of the interrogations of the jewelry store customers. It may help. - Thanks. - Yeah, well, just don't let the dragon lady know that I gave it to you and if you find anything out, you let me know about it. - You got it. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) 21531, there's this guy, Nero there that you should talk to, hold on a second. What are you doing? - Where are the keys to the blue Miata you impounded yesterday? - Why? - I need a loaner. - What happened to your car? - I had a little engine trouble. - Jim, you cannot take that car. What do expect me to do, hold the paperwork on it? - Yeah. - Cates, Cates, I'm only gonna hold it for three days. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) - Hello there, how can I help you? - I'm hoping you can, officer, my name is Jim Cates, I'm a detective from New York. - Yeah, Deputy Lewis Ross, pleased to meet you. - Nice to meet you too. - What brings you all the way up here? - Well, I'm working on a very important case and I have reason to believe that the suspect is residing in this area. - Dang, I wouldn't raise the hassles on a dead dog. - Sheriff Taylor. - What? - This is Detective- - Cates, Jim Cates. - Detective Cates from the NYPD. - New York, huh? Well, Detective Cates, to what do we owe the pleasure of this visit? - Well, as I was just explaining to your deputy here, I'm working on a very important case. I believe the suspect is living in this area. She look familiar to you? - She look familiar to you? - Yeah. - (laughs) You got yourself a real hardened criminal there, detective. - A real mean one. - Look, I'm not exactly sure what's so funny but this is a very serious matter. - Look, detective the woman in that photograph is Sarah Raines, she happens to be a very well-respected member of our community. - Sarah Raines. - Uh-huh. - It's Megan Marlow. - No, no, no, you have been living on that cement island too long. I'm telling you the woman in that photograph is Sarah Raines. Hell she just donated a library to this community. - Well, could you please tell me where I might find her. - Louis. - She has a place north of here about five miles outside of town. Big white house with a red barn. - Big red barn out back, you can't miss it. - Thank you. - Oh and Detective Cates, when you get out there, you be careful, I understand she's armed and dangerous. (dramatic music) (engines rev) - I know I've been away, I know, I'm gonna take you both for some exercise. (dramatic music) (knocks) - Hello? (knocks) Hello? Anybody home, hello? (banging) (grunts) - Who the hell are you? - Do you always hit first and ask questions later? - You broke into my house, dip shit, face the floor, put your hands over your head. - Look, my name is Jim Cates, I'm a detective from New York City. - How long have you been working for Sloan? - I'm a cop, check my I.D. - Sloan owns a lot of badges. - Sloan and you ripped him off, very smooth, only you got my partner killed and your friend, Bobby is dead too. I hope it was worth it, Megan. - What do you want? - You're gonna help me get this guy, Sloan. (gun fires) (dramatic music) I miss the city all ready. - Come on. - Damn. Come on, come on, whoa. Yee-ha! (gun fires) - Oh damn. - Hey, hey, hold up, stop, police. (dramatic music) Come on! Oh, oh, oh. Pull over, stop, you are under arrest. (thumps) (grunts) - [Man] Hello Detective Cates. - Oh great. - You can't ride for shit, Cates. - Where's the girl? - Gone, how the hell should I know? - You sure? - Okay, you got me, she's behind one of the trees over there. Why don't you go take a look? - (laughs) Sorry, funny man, that was the only thing keeping you alive. (police sirens wail) - Come on, come on. - Next time Cates. - Come on, come on. - Are you okay? - I'll make it. What the hell are you two doing here anyway? - Saving your bacon I'd say son. Look, Mr. Cates, I think it's about time you leveled with us. Suppose you tell me just exactly what's going on around here. - Well, I'm sure by now even you and Goober here has figured out that those are the bad guys and they're after Sarah Raines or Megan Marlow or whatever her name is just like I am. - But why? - She's a suspect in a jewelry heist I'm working on. - Mrs. Raines ain't no thief. - Well that's something I have to find out for myself deputy. Besides by now those thugs have figured out that Sarah Raines is Megan Marlow. - All right, all right, let's go get this cleared up once and for all. If she's a thief and if she is trying to escape, I think I know where she's headed. - Where? - Well, she's a pilot, now I may not be a big city detective but I'd say the air field is a real good place to start. (banging) (glass breaks) - Hey, got something. Oh what do we got there, let's find out. Library card, credit cards, son of a bitch, Megan Marlow. - You're kidding. (dramatic music) (police sirens blare) - I'm sorry about this Sarah. - What the hell's going on sheriff? - I've got this detective from New York City, he said he needs to ask you a few questions, would you mind stepping in the car. - Look sheriff, that man broke into my house and he assaulted me, I don't know - Oh no, Megan, what this is all about but- you're the one that clocked me with those vase remember? - You must have the wrong person. I told you my name is Sarah Raines. - Please Mrs. Raines, just get in the car, we can clear this up at the station. You're not in any trouble. - Yet. - They located the woman in Vermont. Ray and Mack followed Cates right to her. You're not gonna believe this, it's Rick Marlow's wife. She's alive. - Megan, alive that tenacious bitch. But it figures Bobby and Rick were friends. You better get up to Vermont and look at this personally. - I'm on my way. - And Walker, you bring those diamonds back to me. Then terminate Megan Marlow. - I feel bad about this Sarah. - It's not your fault sheriff. - So Megan, where are the diamonds? - Quit calling me that. - Planning on financing another town structure or what? - It seems that I should get a lawyer before talking to you. - Well, why don't you tell me about those guys chasing you earlier today. Looks like your double cross backfired in that pretty little face of yours. - Looks like they followed you to me. - Looks like we've got somebody up here needs a hand. - It's them. - Sheriff, it's them. - Who? - Those guys from the woods. - Is that so? You know I'd kinda like to talk to those boys. - Look, these guys are pros, I guarantee they don't play around. - Neither do I. - Look out sheriff! (dramatic music) (crashing) (dramatic music) (grunts) - Are you all right? - I think so. - You guys? - I'm all right but the sheriff. - Get him out of there, they're gonna be back any second. - Deputy there's nothing you can do, they're right behind us, come on, let's go. - Hey, I don't know what the hell you two are into but I'm safer anywhere you're not and I'm not leaving the sheriff, now leave! - There's nothing. - Just go! (dramatic music) (gun fires) (hollers) - Come on, come on, let's go. (dramatic music) Whoa, whoa! - What the hell are you doing anyway! - Police, there's been an accident. - What? - Push over. - What are you doing? - Push over John Boy, I'm commandeering your vehicle. (climactic music) Okay, Megan, I think it's time you and I talk before the body count rises any more. - What the hell's going on here? - Sloan killed my husband and my sister. - I kinda figured that, a little revenge, huh? - A little justice. - Don't confuse revenge with justice, you'll never get the same results. - Why don't you just let me out right here somewhere. - Look, I'll tell you what I know about Sloan if you promise to help me out. - I don't make promises to criminals. - I'm not a criminal. (dramatic music) - Oh geeze. Get out of the truck. - What the hell are you doing! (explodes) Holy Judas priest! (dramatic music) - Come on get in. It's not safe on the ground here anymore. - What do you mean? - Hey, sorry about your tank and we're taking your truck. - Oh yeah, go ahead, I was gonna get a new one anyway. (dramatic music) - Damn tourists. - Cates, you better know how to fly because I know you don't think I'm stupid enough to fly myself to prison. - Just get us in the air, we'll talk about a deal later. So who is this Sloan? Megan, Megan. - What? - Sloan, who is Sloan? - He used to be my husband's law partner. He set up this thievery ring using some of his old platoon. When my husband, Rick learned that Sloan was involved with underworld people, he confronted him and soon after Sloan planted a bomb in our car to kill Rick and me. Instead he killed Rick and Sarah. - Your sister. - Yeah. So, I wasn't gonna wait around for Sloan's militia to take another shot, so I took my sister's identity. - Sarah Raines, how'd you manage that anyway? - I was next of kin. I identified the body as I helped transfer the dental records, it was surprisingly easy. I waited for the right chance to really hurt Sloan. Bobby wanted out, he needed cash to disappear, so he was gonna take the diamonds, in return give me my husband's computer files. - Computer files. - Enough information to put Sloan away forever. - Only they killed Bobby first. - Hmm-mm, I got the information, now all I need is the opportunity to use it. - What information, where is it? - I'll tell you when you can give me some assurances. I'm not going to jail Cates. - First the diamonds. - What are you gonna do for me? And stay away from oxymorons like witness protection. - It depends on what kind of information you have and we have to have the stones back, of course. - Uh-huh and then I go free? - I can't make any promises. - Well, then neither can I. - Look, Megan, Sloan has already cost the lives of three police officers, not to mention the fact, what was that? - I don't know. - What do you mean, you don't know, you're the pilot, you're supposed to know about the aircraft. - I'm losing oil pressure. - What does that mean losing oil pressure? - We're losing altitude, practically damn, those thugs must have sabotaged the plane. - You don't check the oil before you go up in the air? - There's no good place to set down. - How could you let this happen? - We didn't have time for a pre-flight check. - Oh how long does it take to check the oil? - Look, there are parachutes in the back. - Oh no, I'm not jumping out of a complete (indistinct). - I don't have time to argue with you, just grab them. - Oh man, I can't even believe you would suggest something- - I'm trying to save your life, just put it on and snap the buckles. - Here take this. - I do not consider this the sensible solution to an oil problem. - I'm gonna make a bit of a dive, pick up some altitude. When I say jump, you jump. - You first. - I'll be right behind you Cates. Just remember to pull your cord as soon as you get out. Okay, go. - All right, I'm gonna go just let me- - Go damn it! - All right, don't yell at me, for crying out loud, I'm gonna go. (hollers) Oh I'm gonna die! Where's the ground? Where's the thing, where's the thing? (hollers) Thank you God! (laughs) - Whew! Oh boy. (dramatic music) This stupid thing worked. (laughs) (grunts) - Jump Megan, jump. What are you waiting for? (dramatic music) - Oh, bitch. Low-life, dirty, rotten, sneaky, conniving little bitch! Lying little spoiled brat! Slut, lying brat, spoiled little bitch! - Thanks for picking me up. - No problem, thanks for letting me drive your car. - Are you okay? - Yep. - Hey, I'm sorry about the sheriff, if I had known. - Yeah, me too. Well, I talked to the feds. - Oh great. - They're sending up two men tomorrow. I'll let you explain all this to them. What she'd do make you jump? That's funny. - Take me to Megan's. - What for? - Clues. (dramatic music) - Looks like we missed the party. - Well, let's start looking. - What am I looking for? - Clues. - Like what? - You'll know them when you see them. - So, what's it like being a New York cop? - It's all right. - Must be a rush. - Yeah. - Well, well, well, well, well, well, if is isn't Amelia Earhart. - Deputy Cates, it's lovely to see you again? Did you have a nice fall? - Good to see you too, Megan. Now what on Earth would bring you all the way back here? - I came back for my wallet, nice job with my house. - We didn't do it but somebody was looking for something. - Well, thanks for stopping by but I bet you still don't got a warrant so why don't you get the hell out of my home. - All right, but you're coming with us. - What are you doing, get your hands off me, deputy. - Cuffs, give me your cuffs. - Deputy! - I'm really sorry, Miss Raines. - You have no right to do this. - I don't want you shoving me out of the car. - [Deputy] Are you sure you wanna stay here. We could put you both up at the station under protection. - No, we'll be fine. - All right, see you in the morning. - Yeah, thanks. - Hey. - Sorry Megan. You can deal with the feds from now on. - You weren't ever gonna keep up with your end of the deal. You don't even have the authority to negotiate. - Look, I've been chasing these thieves and your man, Sloan for over three years. It's cost the lives of my two partners, both very good friends. Not to mention, it's ruined my career and countless innocence people have been shot- - Oh geeze, what an insensitive person I've been. I just lost my whole family. (slow music) - Look, Megan, I know how you feel. My first partner and I grew up together. We went to the same school, we were in the service at the same time. And we graduated from the police academy together. And then we were partners. We spent more time together than anyone in the whole world. He was family. And then a guy like Sloan snaps his fingers and everything changes. We're on the same side, Megan, we want the same thing, Sloan. You give me the information and the diamonds and I'll let you disappear. I would have never heard of Sarah Raines or Megan Marlow. And I promise, I will get Sloan. - Why should I trust you, you could just take the diamonds and run. (slow music) - Please, help me get Sloan. - Okay but this is between you and me only, no feds. - Deal. - Deal. (slow music) (slow music) (helicopter whirling) - Let's go. (dramatic music) - Good morning. - That was a mean trick, Megan, I thought you left. - Come on, let's go get some breakfast. (dramatic music) - Key. - What? - Key. - Oh. - Look, the sheriff's been killed, there's dogs lost all over the- - Hello sheriff. - Good morning. Look I can't talk right now, I'm acting Deputy Styles. - Deputy Styles. - Somebody else has just come in here so, yeah, take it easy, bye. - Deputy Styles, we're looking for a couple of- - I know why you're here, Deputy Ross telephoned headquarters this morning. Didn't he inform you? - No. - Well, Detective Cates has the girl, Miss Marlow down at the inn, they're waiting for you. - Oh yes, of course, our radios must have been out of range. Now where's that inn located again? - Down the road a mile, about on the right. - Thank deputy, you don't know how big a help you've been. - They've got a great breakfast if you haven't eaten. - Who are they? - The feds, I sent them to the inn. - Oh good. (dramatic music) (knocks) - Hi, how you doing? - Federal Agent, Zachary, I'm looking for Detective Jim Cates. - Damn, it's good to see a friendly face. - Well, it's good to be here. Your department in New York updated me. Your sergeant is really pissed, so do you have the girl? - No, she ditched me. - What? - But I have a plan, I just need a couple of hours to follow it up, that's all I need. - Well, if the girl's not here, I gotta make a report. - Just a couple of hours, come on now. - That's against policy, you know that. Look, I've been working on this for three years. One hour. - All right, one hour but that's it. - Great. Oh and I need to borrow your car. (dramatic music) - Can you believe that deputy, what an idiot. That's them! - This is the place, right? - Yeah, this is it, my husband used to own shares in this company. There, pull over there. - Uh-oh. (dramatic music) Charles, it can't be. - Great to see you again, Jimmy. - Charles. - Who? - Charles Walker, my partner, my dead partner. - Not quite, Jimmy, now drop the gun. - Tell me you're not involved. - I'm afraid so Jim, the pay's much better and being the bad guy, much more interesting. - I'll kill you. - You can get one of us, but the other two are sure to get Megan. - How much did it take, how much did it take to buy your loyalty, to kill Reece? - You know Jimmy, I'm not in the mood for a morality sermon from a washed-up burnout like you. So, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna take the jewels and your little friend here and I'm gonna have these guys kill you, how's that? - You'll never get away with it. The feds are involved. - Bury him in that cheap little piece of shit down there! - Come on, move it, move it! - Okay, sweetie pie, I'm gonna make sure you're gone for good this time. - You kill me and Sloan goes down. - Nice try. - Bobby passed me Rick's disk before you killed him. The disk contained a good portion of the affidavit he was preparing on Sloan. Some account numbers on Switzerland and the Caymans and oh yes, a very interesting file on you. - So, what do you want? - You let Cates go and then I talk to Sloan. - It's too late for Cates. But I like you, you have spunk. - Now look this is your last chance to surrender, the feds will be swarming this place in just a little while. - Oh how will the feds like if I did that huh! - Get in the car, stand up! - Let's bury him! Get in the car! (dramatic music) Fasten your seatbelt. - You better give good phone, 'cause if Sloan doesn't believe you, you're dead. I've got the diamonds Mr. Sloan. - Good Charles, very good. By the way did you take care of our problems? - Megan claims she's holding some information on you. - Put her on the phone. Hello, Megan, my, my, my you are a clever girl. We thought you died in the accident. - Cut the crap, I've got Rick's disk. - So? - So, I want Detective Cates let go. (dramatic music) If you kill me the documents will automatically be sent to the feds. - Oh come on Megan, why on Earth would I believe you. - The Caymans' account password is roughcut, sound familiar? - What do you want? - You took everything from me Sloan, I want justice. (machinery runs) - You return the disk to me and I'll let you live, now how's that for justice? - You need Cates alive too, he's the only one besides me who could stop the mailing of the disk. - You give her what she wants. And Walker, bring that disk to me immediately. (hollers) - Police, stand down, stand down! (punches) (gun fires) (dramatic music) (grunts) - All right, county boy wanna come to the big city? (punches) (grunts) (grunts) (punches) (punches) (dramatic music) (punches) (hollers) (dramatic music) - Spacious. - Detective, are you all right? - Yeah. Hey thanks. Sorry I called you Goober. - No problem. (dramatic music) - What the hell happened? - Get out of my seat fed. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! - Come on, come on. - I'm 50-years-old, easy, geeze! (engine revs) - He sounded scared, for the first time since I've been with Sloan, he actually sounded scared. You must have some nasty stuff on that disk. - The feds are gonna use it. - No I'm gonna use it to get out from under Sloan, then I'm gonna blow you up honey. (phone rings) - Sheriff's Office. It's for you, detective. - Cates here. - Jimmy, you made it. It's me old buddy. I've got somebody here wants to talk to you. - Jim, they wanna make a trade, Jim. The disk for me. - The disk. - You know where it is, it nearly hit you on the head when we first met. - Be at the airport in an hour, come alone. If you're not there by 5 p.m., I blow the bitch up. - Look, you son of a bitch you touch- Well, she's alive. - What do they want? - A trade, the disk for Megan. - What disk? - She said I knew where it was. Hit me over the head. Look I gotta go alone or they'll kill her. - What do you want us to do? - Come up with a brilliant plan to save her before I get to the airport. - No problem. (dramatic music) - Bye, honey, it's been fun, now don't move. (dramatic music) - [Charlie] I've got somebody here wants to talk to you. - You hear that? - What? - [Megan] Jim. - Old buddy, I got somebody here wants to talk to you. That boom, that's the sound of rail cars connecting. - I don't get it. - There's only one place in this county where rail cars connect, railyard depot downtown. Come on. - Oh. (dramatic music) - Good going Megan. (dramatic music) (grunts) (punches) (grunts) (grunts) (grunts) (hollers) My god! (grunts) (punches) (grunts) - I'm done playing Cates, get up 'cause you're gonna die! Come on, come on Cates, get up, you die now! (gun fires) - Your technique needs work. (climactic music) (dramatic music) - No, stay there, no. - I see it, stay calm. What can you tell me about the bomb? - It has a radio detonator and if I move it goes off. - Okay. - Be careful. - There's a motion sensor attached and a radio receiver. You know how to disarm a bomb? - I'll call the bomb squad in Burlington. - We don't have time. Call Cates and tell him to stall. But not here, your phone could set this off. (dramatic music) (phone rings) - Cates. - Yeah, we found Megan, she's at the rail yard. Delay Walker as long as possible. - Yeah, I hear you what's the problem? - [Bob] There's a bomb attached to her, Walker has the detonator. - Well get her out of there. - Well, we're working on it but there's a motion sensor attached to her. - Oh wonderful. - Delay Walker as long as possible. - Look, tell Megan I'll do everything I can. - What else do you need? - A Boy Scout, some kind of knife? - Yeah, yeah, got one. - Give it here. - You do know what you're doing don't you deputy? - I have this cousin, slept with his vet's wife, found himself in the same situation. Never could figure out how a veterinarian got so many explosives. - That's not funny. - Good, 'cause if you laugh, we're toast. (dramatic music) Okay, what we have here is a motion tumbler. Set there and make the pinball machine go tilt, if you so much as sneeze, we're all dead. - What's the story? - We're still working on it. - Well he's here. As soon as I give him the disk, she's dead. - Stall him! - Stall him. - What I'm gonna do is cut this wire, disarm the blasting cap and short the coil, so I can remove the tumbler. I need you to hold the wire. - Great to see you again Jimmy. - You know, you were the last person in the world I thought would sell me out. I trusted you. You let me believe you were dead all this time, my partner, my friend. - Gee, Jimmy, I think I'm gonna cry. - Why'd you do it, Charles? - Why does anybody do anything Jimmy, the obvious reasons. Let me give you a few, number one, I'm dripping with money. Number two the babes. - What about Reece? - What about Reece? (dramatic music) - Wait, drain the static from your body by touching that floorboard. - Ah geeze, is there anything else I should know? - Stop wearing so much polyester. - We grew up together, I was your kid's godfather before he died, doesn't that mean anything to you? What about the dealings with your wife? Doesn't all the- - Jimmy, we didn't talk this much when we were partners. If I didn't know any better, I'd think you were trying to stall me. - I see you're still pretty clever, Charles. - The disk, Cates now. - Megan, you're gonna have to stop shaking so I can cut this. - I'm trying. - Gosh, Charles, it was here just a minute ago. - I'm gonna give you to five, one, two, three, four- - Oh here it is. - Surprise, surprise. (dramatic music) Very nice, she's right, this would have put Sloan away and three years of misery for you. - Let her go, Charles! - After I'm out of here. Good to see you again, Jimmy, take care. - Is she clear? - Not yet. - Well, he's got that disk, he can hit the detonator anytime, get her out of there! - They are not clear. (grunts) (grunts) (dramatic music) (grunts) (grunts) (sighs) (grunts) (hollers) (laughs) (explodes) (grunts) (grunts) - Take me to the rail yard. (helicopter whirls) (dramatic music) Oh Megan, I'm so happy to see you. - Excuse me, excuse me, we have a little matter to resolve, it's about the diamonds, and my car which is now scrap metal and worth absolutely nothing. - Let me help. - And this Walker affair, you didn't tell me about- - Let me help you. - The diamonds are on the helicopter. - Good to see you, now get out of town, both of you, quick. - A deal's a deal. - You have the disk then? - No. - Shit. - But you're free. - Cates I'm never gonna be free until Sloan is gone for good. - You can't spend the rest of your life looking for revenge, you'll never have piece of mind. (slow music) - You're right. Thank you. I have to go, I have to be alone. - Alone, alone where? - I just need time for myself. Don't follow me, I'll see you. - Megan, Megan! (dramatic music) (police sirens wail) (slow music) Time for yourself, time for what? Time for revenge. (dramatic music) - Morning Sherman. - Ah Megan. I can't say that I didn't expect to see you sooner or later. What do you want? - We've got some unfinished business. Oh I don't think so, I heard nobody's seems to be able to find this disk you've been talking about. - Yes, that's right, I've got no proof left. Absolutely nothing. I just wanted to see the look in your eyes when I blow them through the back of your head. - You haven't got the guts. - Oh really? - Don't do it Megan. - Detective Cates, this woman just broke into my office- - Shut up. He isn't worth it, Megan. - Leave me alone Jim. - You pull that trigger, you lose any chance of getting your life back. - One life for so many seems like a really good deal right now. - You don't need to do this, we'll get him eventually, I promise. Put it down, Megan. - You're right, he's not worth it. - Goddamnit arrest her! That crazy bitch is going to jail for this. - Who are you talking about? - Megan Marlow. - No, you must be mistaken, Megan Marlow died in an automobile explosion some time ago. - What? - I can't touch you now, Sloan but you're dirty and I'm a patient man. - Get out of here. (dramatic music) - Jim, come on. - Can I have my gun back please. - Huh? - My gun. - Oh yeah, thanks. - I don't suppose it occurred to you that if you would have shot Sloan with my gun, it might have been just a little sticky for me. - Oops, I wasn't- - Oops, oops. - What are you gonna do arrest me? - No, but you're gonna help me get Sloan legally. - Do you have a plan? - No but I'll come up with something. - Well I tell you what, why don't we just put Sloan out of our minds for a little while and go have some dinner. - Dinner. - Yes, dinner, you, me a nice restaurant, dinner. - There it is again. - What? - That tone in your voice. - What tone? - That tone. The same tone you had just before you made me jump out of the plane, just before you stole my gun. - Just before I kissed you. - Yeah, you know Megan, I really wanna trust you but I can't. - I don't blame you. - Now what am I supposed to do? - Enjoy the ride. - I know a great little Chinese restaurant. (dramatic music) - Hello, Jeffrey, Sloan here how are you? Yes, well look it, I have a bit of a job for you. Well it's the wife of a former friend of mine who's been a thorn in my side for quite some time. I'd like to see her take a rather long vacation if you get what I mean. No, I'll take care of it, no problem. I'm counting on you Jeff, don't let me down. (explosion) ♪ Make your move baby ♪ ♪ Looking tight find the groove ♪ ♪ Get on track ♪ ♪ Once you do there's no turning back ♪ ♪ Fill your head ♪ ♪ With the words of the (indistinct) ♪ ♪ Take the key ♪ ♪ Unlock the door baby now you're free ♪ ♪ Make your move ♪ ♪ Make your move ♪ ♪ Get it straight ♪ ♪ Do it now before it gets too late ♪ ♪ Climb on board ♪ ♪ Don't give me none of that whiny look ♪ ♪ Raise your hand ♪ ♪ Spread the news all across the land ♪ ♪ Shine your light ♪ ♪ Have no fear of the cold black night ♪ ♪ Raise ♪ ♪ Everyone (indistinct) ♪ ♪ Your ♪ ♪ Every (indistinct) ♪ ♪ Hand ♪ ♪ Don't forget it ♪ ♪ Raise ♪ ♪ Open up your heart ♪ ♪ Your ♪ ♪ (indistinct) ♪ ♪ Heart ♪ ♪ Go and get it now ♪