Transcript for The Demon Suppressors: West Barbarian Beast (2021) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- 100 years ago Celestial Master Yuxu sealed in magic beasts of the eight states The king of western beasts was turned into a supernatural bone It has fallen into the hands of the Barbarian Tribe, which enshrines it as halidom In the 40th year of the Zhao Dynasty The western Barbarian Tribe intends to use the supernatural bone to gain the power of the leader of magic beasts Then they will march eastward to recapture their lost land We have found out that the halidom has appeared in the Sect of Rebirth Just in the city below The wicked Sect of Rebirth fished in the troubled waters They stole the halidom in hope of turning the leader of magic beasts into a demon Under the order from the late emperor, a cavalry of the Demon-suppressing Department is speeding westward to guard the seals at any cost quell anomalies and conquer devils everywhere Gu Niantong Give the halidom to us go to the Demon-suppressing Department with us and take your punishment or you will be dead Come on Come on Gu Niantong, the No.2 minister of the Sect of Rebirth You'd better tell me why the halidom of my Barbarian Tribe has fallen into your hands My king, you were busy with the battle on the frontline but you didn't realize that some thefts from the Demon-suppressing Department sneaked into your home They stole the halidom and hid here So I have fixed them and just keep the halidom safe for you temporarily I'm not the king yet It's said the king of the Barbarian Tribe has god-given power Moreover, he can communicate with all kinds of beasts He leads a group of beasts whenever he goes to war If you were not the king There wouldn't be two iron lion statues at the gate Are they just flashy ornaments? Knock it off. No more sarcasm If you don't show your intention No matter how solid the mansion is I will raze it to the ground Don't worry, my general Alimaosi, the leader of magic beasts, is to blame It remains unwilling to give a sign Otherwise, with the power of the leader of magic beasts you can break the defense line of General Zhenwu as easy as pie Approval from the leader of magic beasts? (Mantra of the Barbarian Tribe) Don't you want to be a real king of the Barbarian Tribe? How do you understand the mantra? I heard the general has long been recognized by the Barbarian Tribe as the best choice to succeed the late king If you allow the branch of the Sect of Rebirth to continue operation here I can find a way to help you get approval from the leader of magic beasts What do you want? The Demon-suppressing Department has been at odds with the Sect of Rebirth Now it dares to have designs on the power of the leader of magic beasts Hey, Xiao You have been rowing for hours But we only get here Today the Demon-suppressing Department is recruiting for its eastward expedition You want to be late on purpose so that the strength of the examiner will ebb away, right? Xiao You have become a bad boy Wumou - If you hadn't run out to drink– - Steady yourself Hello, everyone The seal over the magic beasts will be broken soon in the Qiankun Palace To make things worse, the Barbarian Tribe has started a war with our Zhao Dynasty Today I will pick the best warriors who have served for at least three years in the Demon-suppressing Department The selected warriors will join our westward expedition Among the Twenty-four Banners of the Four Camps any warrior who can withstand one of my demon-breaking arrows will be qualified for the expedition Lieutenant Hua, your demon-breaking arrow can penetrate mountains and crack stones Yeah, who can withstand it? Nobody Be quiet Every Banner is allowed to put together a four-strong team for the contest The Black Dragon Banner from the Four-elephant Camp is ready to be the first contestant The White Tiger Banner from the Four-elephant Camp is going to join the contest The White Tiger Banner? The small squad that can't scrape together enough warriors? The standard-bearer of the White Tiger Banner Lieutenant Hua's sister I bet she will just go through the motions - Exactly - Only you? Are you sure? Yeah, let's begin Don't forget me, Xiao Zhen from the White Tiger Banner of the Four-elephant Camp And me, Ning Wumou Xiao Zhen, Ning Wumou Today we are recruiting for the westward expedition You are unforgivably late - At first, you must be flogged 20 times - No. Come on One benefits from his connection with Commander Lu The other is a disciple expelled by the Sect of Yuxu Mountain The Xiao family is a group of sinners that betray the Zhao Dynasty Now they throw themselves at the feet of the Hua Family for shelter - Don't be a hero. - I must join the westward expedition Without magic power How can you withstand a demon-breaking arrow. You will die With you I won't If you're afraid of death, hide behind Get out of the way You Don't face it directly The Yuxu Rune Umbrella is a good magic weapon but this is just the beginning Yuxu theurgy Not bad Do you want to murder me? Wuchang, help me break the magic trigger in her hands. Wumou Xiao Madam, take the spear Are you OK? Are you OK? Go, go It is said that late General Xiao brought a book about the saber-wielding artistry to the army Though there are only eight movements in the artistry Each one is overwhelmingly powerful Just now if you used a saber rather than a dagger and performed the eighth movement for formation breaking maybe you could be a match for me Good teamwork That's what a team should look like But My demon-breaking arrow hasn't landed yet. What are you going to do next? We three fight together Commander Zhang has come Lieutenant Hua, emergence Follow me Yes The Twenty-four Banners of the Four Camps under the Demon-suppressing Department Stand by The Sect of Rebirth had no contact with Barbarian Tribe until recently they have ally teamed up At this point Do you have any countermeasure? I have ordered some people to contact the Vajra Sect, which has dispatched eminent monks to detect where the seals are and stabilize the situation first Since the establishment of the Demon-suppressing Department it has been guarding the eight seals and keeping the peace in the world However, eight years ago the seal was lost in the Lihuo Palace and the Lihuo magic beast was snatched by the Sect of Rebirth Four years agoduring the battle in the Zhenlei Palace though we gave a heavy blow to the Sect of Rebirth Commander Lu and the Zhenlei magic beast disappeared No one knows whether he is dead or alive Now the seal will be broken soon in the Qiankun Palace and the Sect of Rebirth is reviving from the ashes Lieutenant Hua We can't afford to lose this battle Commander Zhang, today I'm recruiting for the westward expedition After I Lieutenant Hua Time does not permit Who are the strongest in the Four Camps of the Demon-suppressing Department You and I are very clear The Heaven Banner of the Three-Talent Camp Now I name you as the top standard-bearer for the westward expedition You lead the best warriors of the Demon-suppressing Department and set out right now to find out the intention of the Sect of Rebirth and protect the seal in the Qiantian Palace Yes In the recruitment for the westward expedition I'm afraid our effort will end in vain again Nonsense I bet you won't be recruited Shut up You don't believe it? Let's wait and see Even if some guys are recruited they, as before, must be those from the Banners designated by the commander Lihuo, Xunfeng Qiankun Banner, Lihuo Banner and Xunfeng Banner Fall out Yes, Madam Qinglong, Xuanwu Qinglong Banner and Xuanwu Banner, fall out Zhonglu Banner Jiugong Camp and Zhonglu Banner, fall out Yes, madam Have you heard? Not including you How did you know? These standard-bearers have something in common They have achieved great merits Xiao Zhen from the White Tiger Banner Fall out During this expedition you must take one person Could you make it clearer? Does he know it? No It's the last resort Unless there is no other way don't use it Yes, madam Why? Why him? A good-for-nothing without magic power Why him? Why? Isn't because nepotism? The three gossipers in the Xuanwu Banner each must be flogged 100 times to let them know Lieutenant Hua Empty talks can't make one qualified for a battle Lieutenant Hua Lieutenant Hua, I beg your mercy Lieutenant Hua Lieutenant Hua, Lieutenant Hua I, Hua Wuchang, standard-bearer of the White Tiger Banner of the Four-elephant Camp pleads with you to include me in the expedition Lieutenant Hua, I beg your mercy Lieutenant Hua Lieutenant Hua, I beg your mercy I beg your mercy The White Tiger Banner is shorthanded so from now on it's incorporated into the Xuanwu Banner Yes, madam All the nominated Banners follow me to the frontier Set out today No delay is allowed The Demon-suppressing Department in the Zhao Dynasty executes the order of heaven to eliminate demons and promote justice in the world Is there anything new about the Sect of Rebirth? We need to take back the halidom as soon as possible Princess Our scouts just found some people in the city are secretly preparing sacrifices I suppose it is related to the Sect of Rebirth Gosh We can't let them summon the leader of magic beasts. Otherwise, King Animaosi will get furious (Mantra of the Barbarian Tribe) A descendant of the king of the Barbarian Tribe Ansimaosi Savage and bloodthirsty How dare you covet my divine power? You are heading for your doom What's wrong? As you saw and heard The sign of the leader of magic beasts has been made clear The one chosen to succeed the late king is not you Bullshit General Chinu, the wolf cavalry is raiding us After I kill the head of the wolf cavalry I will continue the sacrificial ceremony I heard the head of the wolf cavalry can command wolves If she is the successor chosen by the leader of magic beasts and can communicate with all kinds of beasts Are you sure you can beat her? Do you have a good idea? To seize the power of the leader of magic beasts in my opinion, is not difficult Would you like to try the method of the Sect of Rebirth? The leader of magic beasts is a god formed by the souls of all kinds of beasts. Blood sacrifice is prohibited Disciples from the Vajra Sect If the god is tarnished, it will become a demon The consequences will be disastrous At this moment, General Chinu must keep your mind from being controlled by the demon It's too late Buddhist Vajra Seal Eight Divisions of Dragons and Devas? Vajra Mantra Prajnaparamita General Chinu Listen to my chanting of Buddha names We will help you prevent the demon from entering your body Uncle-Master Uncle-Master Inform the Demon-suppressing Department the seal has been broken and the demon has come into the world again Uncle-Master This is the power of the leader of magic beasts Really amazing my king. There mustn't two kings in the Barbarian Tribe I have a plan At present, the priority is to fix those who covet the power of the leader of magic beasts Besides, the Demon-suppressing Department is not as rash as the wolf cavalry Disguise and deceit are their old tricks You are wiping your old-fashioned spearhead again My father on behalf of the Zhao Dynasty signed a truce agreement with the king of the Barbarian Tribe The spearhead was one of the weapons exchanged between both sides It's a symbol of peace The Barbarian Tribe is approaching with bloodlust Damn the fragile peace In this western expedition You just need to be in charge of rear defense and message transmission. I know I'm an incompetent team leader Lieutenant Hua, I'm willing to take my punishment. You needn't be so serious There is only you and me here You can call me sister You are really stubborn You need to go back home and get married in the near future No, I don't want to get married I want to be like you I hope I can, with my own strength achieve feats in the Demon-suppressing Department. rather than be a political bargaining chip of my father Whether you get married or not Wuchang I'm always with you Go ahead Help me check the magic tools needed to activate the seals Yes, madam The old monks from the Vajra Sect haven't arrived yet, why? What's in it? It's so heavy They are rare magic tools used to seal in the magic beasts Be careful, both of you If they break the responsibility is beyond what you can bear Keep down Solders of the Barbarian Tribe are coming Formation. Counterattack. Formation. Counterattack Why can our three formations not resist them? Retreat to the canyon. Come on Something's wrong. It's weird. It's witchcraft. A witch is assisting the Barbarian Tribe. Your magic power has been transferred You have no magic power. How do you know? I once read it in the files of the Demon-suppressing Department Give up formations. Draw your weapons. Close combat. No, I don't like it. I... Go to hell Xiao Protect the magic tools first - Xiao! - There must be something important with them. Shut up Xiao Help! Xiao Xiao! Hua Wuchang, is this how you command? Now even the most foolish know we should be the primary target He is... the king of the Barbarian Tribe Protect Xiao Zhen first Listen, retreat to the southeast. Retreat Go, Xiao My father's saber Do you hear me? Grab horses, hurry up. Go Gallop Gallop Gallop Gallop Unexpectedly the dear boy that Lu Guanlan tried his best to hide has walked into my trap My stab missed his heart You are the toughest warrior I have ever met After you die I will bury you with the highest rites of my Barbarian Tribe Whoa Sister Bandage. Quick The retreat was so hasty that I hadn't taken any bandage Water Water. Clean the wound first. What are you doing? The wound is too bag What should we do? Lime. Xiao Zhen, flintstone Quick Wuchang Keep out the wind Wuchang Wuchang Don't make vain efforts Wuchang Do you remember that day when I recruited soldiers for the expedition? Xiao Zhen though you have no magic power you never slack off and you can always get an insight into the situation on the battlefield You have the potential to be a good general Wumou You are lazy passive and afraid of war but you have the flair beyond the wisdom of average people In the times of crisis you can always defeat the enemy by a surprise move Wuchang You're so proud of yourself that you prefer to do anything on your own you have good partners around you but you go it alone That day, to my surprise I saw you stand in front of your teammates to protect them If you don't speak out what's in your heart how can you unlock the entanglement deep there? Don't say any more That day for the first time, I saw you guys working together and displaying remarkable strength This was why... I decided to take you with me on the westward expedition At any time all of you must remember how you feel that day Lieutenant Hua The White Tiger Banner of the Four-elephant Camp, attention Hua Wuchang Now I nominate you as the top standard-bearer for the westward expedition. You lead the survivors back to the border of the Zhao Dynasty and inform Commander Zhang that the seal in the Qiantian Palace has been broken the king of the Barbarian Tribe has reappeared and we need to reorganize troops for the next westward expedition No time to delay During the retreat you must protect Xiao Zhen. As long as he's alive we have a chance to survive The Demon-suppressing Department in the Zhao Dynasty executes the order of heaven to eliminate demons and promote justice in the world Ayimu Ayimu Ayimu Ayimu Brother Ayimu Ayimu Why did you come to the front? You have been away from home for years so I came to see you and at the same time look for an oasis Brother Who hurt you? It's OK Just several spies from the Zhao Dynasty They have been Let me see if it's serious - Let me see. - It's not a big deal. Let me see Not a big deal? Brother We move east to find grassland that can sustain us Why must we go to war with the Zhao dynasty? - Ayimu. - Over the past years. Numerous soldiers of us have been killed or injured and now even you're hurt, too - I'm afraid someday- - Ayimu. Don't you understand? There will be no more grassland The people of Zhao are nothing but locusts Wherever they go forests, grass, cows, sheep and horses are all ruined What we can do is to take back our land and rob them of their food Only? By doing? So can our tribe survive Brother We can find a new piece of land Then together we can build a new homeland, if it's not enough, it can take three generations or even ten generations to turn the land into fertile grassland of our tribe Brother You are the king recognized by our tribe You'll find a better way When it comes to the king Ayimu I have got approval from the king of the magic beas- Brother. What's wrong? Brother Tell me Brother Brother Brother General General Brother. Brother. M-Madam Are, are you OK? Did you hear? The Demon-suppressing Department you talked about is finished No, it isn't I have witnessed how amazing Lieutenant Hua's kungfu is They must hide somewhere Whoa Whoa, Whoa What's the matter, Wumou? Hua Wuchang, you are leading us in the wrong direction Lieutenant Hua ordered us back to the border Why are you going west? If you don't tell me the reason I won't go with you I'm going to complete the westward expedition Then I won't follow you Xiao - Let's go. - Wumou. When I seal in the magic beasts I need your Yuxu theurgy Seal? Cut that crap You just want to avenge your sister's death He is the king of the Barbarian Tribe a man who even defeated Lieutenant Hua Can you beat him? If you want to avenge your sister's death I have no problem with that But if you want to us accompany you into hell No way Xiao, Lieutenant Hua ordered us to retreat Ning Wumou Now I'm the top standard-bearer for the westward expedition. If you dare to take another step back I will punish you by military law Don't make a show of your authority I see Your father guards the border You are a defeated general You will feel humiliated if you go back All right Let's part here Ning Wumou, shut up Sit down Wuchang's decision makes sense I have sent a message via carrier pigeon to the Demon-suppressing Department But Commander Zhang's troops will arrive here in 30 days at the earliest During the period if the Sect of Rebirth and the king of the Barbarian Tribe gather magic beasts to attack our border None can resist them Just now Lieutenant Hua badly injured the king, though at the cost of her life As we saw The king hasn't gained full power from the leader of magic beasts So I think it is imperative that we should go behind enemy lines to find out the reason as soon as possible Then we spread the information When our well-prepared reinforcements arrive maybe we have a chance to achieve the final victory OK Now that you say we have a chance then tell me your plan There are only three of us How will you deploy troops and scout? I give you a chance to convince me but if you want me to dance to her tune No way Are they the warriors from the Demon-suppressing Department who you said execute the order of heaven to eliminate demons and promote justice Finally, I have found you Where is Lieutenant Hua? Gu Niantong What did do to me? My king I just used a blood sacrifice to help you gain power from the leader of magic beasts However, the leader has a small need and you have to meet it What did you give me to drink? Don't worry The last thing that would become scarce on the land is just this Oh Lieutenant Hua has died Hey Tell me what you know That day, Uncle-Masters and I gathered around the altar to prevent General Chinu from a blood sacrifice We wanted to take the opportunity to destroy the halidom on the altar but unexpectedly Master-Uncles failed to resist the power of evil I was captured by this girl who rode a wolf She locked me in a tent hiding me under the bed forcing me to watch her change her clothes I did nothing but recited what my master had told me Women in the secular world are all tigers At that time, I heard a voice from the outside of the tent, calling General Chinu Women in the secular world are all tigers Hey, buddy, that's really romantic Go to the point Then General Chinu came in They talked a lot, blah, blah, blah Suddenly, General Chinu pounced on the girl and attempted to bite her but he failed and ran away I guessed General Chinu was bewitched by the vicious power of the blood sacrifice After all the craps, only the last words are meaningful Now the king of the Barbarian Tribe is under the control of the witchcraft from the Sect of Rebirth The power he has gained from the leader of magic beasts needs to be activated with human blood Therefore we need to hurry up Before the king of the Barbarian Tribe is completely controlled we should sneak into the city steal the halidom and seal in the leader of magic beasts again. This is the key to the success of the battle How dare you make a blatant attempt to steal the halidom of my tribe? What's your purpose? Calm down, we are on the same side The spear of the late king has two spearheads One is blunt which symbolizes benevolence The other is sharp which stands for killing 14 years ago, The Zhao Dynasty made peace with the Barbarian Tribe The then king of your tribe gave one of the spearheads to Zhao as a symbol of peace If I guess correct You are the sister of General Chinu, daughter of the late king and leader of the wolf cavalry of the pro-peace faction in the Barbarian Tribe Chinu Ayimu Who is General Xiao to you? He's my father My father said General Xiao was a respectable hero of Zhao We have no other choice but to steal the halidom of your tribe Now the leader of magic beasts have been tainted by the blood sacrifice and General Chinu, under influence of it is becoming more and more bloodthirsty Getting the halidom is the only way to save your brother and also the key to ending the war I swear by my life once I manage to seal in the leader of magic beasts We, the Demon-suppressing Department will return the halidom to you I hope you can help us infiltrate into the city When you pass by, don't miss a good buy Stop Fine wine Now we have entered the city Then how shall we look for the halidom? Though city is not big looking for the small halidom in it is like searching for a needle in a haystack There are only two places to hide the halidom One is the Sect of Rebirth, which acts as custodian of it Let's review the timeline That day when disciples of the Vajra Sect were killed we were being raided by the king of the Barbarian Tribe If the halidom remains in the altar probably it is still in the hands of the Sect of Rebirth Let go of me. Let go of me Go. You two follow them Hurry up The halidom has been tainted by the blood sacrifices If there is no continuous blood supply to feed it, the leader of magic beasts may get furious at any time It's your great honor to worship the leader of magic beasts with your blood Blood gathering places in the city must be the branches of the Sect of Rebirth The second place to hide the halidom is one heavily guarded by soldiers of the Barbarian Tribe As Princess Chinu said the halidom was once stolen and now it is back so the king must keep it under heavy guard For Princess Chinu it's not difficult By order of General to approach the halidom - No one is allowed to approach the camp I need to talk to my brother General Chinu is not in the camp Princess, please go back Third - Third? Did you say there are only two places? Whenever a magic spell is performed, traces will be left I'm afraid the Sect of Rebirth may preset a countermove in the halidom If so even if we get the halidom we can't seal in the evil Therefore, we must explore the underground altar again One of you is proficient in Yuxu theurgy and the other is a disciple from the Vajra Sect Go find what witchcraft the Sect of Rebirth is using and formulate a countermeasure in case of need If you can't find the way, just ask someone I just happen to know the best source of information After we enter the city tomorrow try to complete our task within eight hours Then let's meet in the west of the city I'll arrange the evacuation route Thank you, Princess Don't forget our agreement Come, come here Come on, little monk We are already here Come on It's OK Go up, go up Go up - No no no Sit down Server up all the best food and wine you can offer Women in the secular world are all tigers. Women in the secular world are all tigers Women in the secular world are all tigers I have sinned. I have sinned. What's this? Wine When they start carrying blood plasma we'll find out a den of the Sect of Rebirth What's this? An exotic snack Glutinous rice cake with red dates It can enrich your blood Have some more drinks Little monk, I didn't see your true colors until just now Little taoist I have found that your team is not in harmony Well Yesterday you said you wanted to save Ayimu's brother Is it a makeshift? No Hua Wuchang, let's talk about her first is always overweening She has a sharp tongue like a dog with a bone whenever she finds one's fault She must have offended a lot of people all the way Do you not want to avenge Lieutenant Hua's death? So many soldiers of the Demon-suppressing Department have been killed. Do you want to let it go? I really don't understand why Lieutenant Hua ordered me to protect you when she was dying Your big brother either doesn't talk or when he does he gives a self-righteous speech Now the Zhao Dynasty is at war with the Barbarian Tribe if we focus on personal enmity when can the war be ended? Where are you going? I'm going to scout the south of the city You stay here to keep an eye on the enemy Execute the order of heaven to eliminate demons and promote justice What a snappy slogan but your teammates go it alone so rudderless that you are exposed to danger, helpless I feel so sorry for you Gu Niantong, the No.2 minister of the Sect of Rebirth Who's lurking around there? I guess they are probably quarreling now but your big brother doesn't bother to explain. He keeps a straight face all day Everyone can tell he has something on his mind? What is it? What is it? Tell us What can he worry about? Nothing but all the past history of his father hovering around his mind such as the fall of the Xiao family the son of a sinner Nobody wants to talk to him in the Demon-suppressing Department Come on. Come on Have a drink. Have a drink You lurked outside the camp You want to attack my brother by surprise, don't you? He deserves to die If the king is killed his army will naturally collapse On one side, a monk and a taoist are binging on meat and wine immersed in sensual pleasures On the other side, Hua Wuchang ignores the military order just for personal enmity The elaborate plan you worked out after a sleepless night have been scrapped by them I wonder why your Xiao family is always framed by your own people What do you mean by ''always framed by your own people''? 14 years ago The Barbarian Tribe started a war with the Zhao Dynasty General Xiao couldn't bear to see the brutal killings countless corpses so he took it upon himself to negotiate peace with the king of the Barbarian Tribe Then the tribe left and settled down in a place far away from Zhao Both sides didn't confront each other anymore But just on the day General Xiao returned to the court the Hua family and the Wu family sent a joint letter to the emperor accusing General Xiao of ignoring his order shrinking from war and retreating without authorization. At last, General Xiao was beheaded at the south gate of the city Dad Dad Witch how dare you tease me with magic Just a little magic Why can't you solve it? Oh, I almost forgot the reason You have been studying hard for more than ten years but you haven't got any magic power Do you know why? Witch, don't disturb my mind Shut up Your master Lu Guanlan teaches you how to develop the demon-breaking knack because he wants you to unknowingly destroy your foundation of magic and just become a container that the Demon-suppressing Department uses to entrap magic beasts This man follows Commander Lu to practice the demon-breaking knack though without magic power he can serve as a container to seal in magic beasts Does he know this? No It's extremely dangerous to seal magic beasts in a human body It's the last resort Don't use it unless there is no other way Seal magic beasts in a human body It's simply a joke Prior to you eight people had made an attempt, but most of them were killed Why do you tell me these? The Demon-suppressing Department wants you to die but I can help you live Having said that Xiao, though dull and inflexible is the only straightforward true man in the Demon-suppressing Department I take him as my lifelong friend Little monk Say something you know about me You You are among the least? Reliable Bad monk My cup is empty, but you don't fill it. Boring. Come on, come on Boring Is that the halidom of the Barbarian Tribe? Why does it appear here? Let's go Beauty, serve wine Xiao Zhen asked you to scout the altar but you drank wine here The king of the Barbarian Tribe just went upstairs He takes the halidom with him Go Where is Xiao? Why are you alone? I don't know He wasn't there when I came back Did you quarrel? Back? Where did you go? Can you make it? You have to wait for the right time I touched it. I touched it. Where is the little monk? Here is lying there Capture the two Zhao people alive and torture them Wait You will never know where the halidom is Kill them Didn't you just say capture us alive? Why are shooting arrows? Let me show you how awesome my golden Buddhist shield is Good heavens! Little monk, I have given the halidom to you You should be wise enough to run My friends are in danger How can I leave alone? Look ahead, a guy is flying out of the house Let's check out what's happening Little monk Little monk. Little monk Give me the halidom and I won't tear your body into pieces Attack Go Where am I? Little monk, you have woken up Now you are awake, you can come down Mr. Ning, would you please carry me a little longer? After I activate the golden Buddhist shield I will stay numb for six hours Xiao, you don't look yourself Xiao Can't you move? I just can't Mr. Ning, Mr. Ning If the king of the Barbarian Tribe is killed, his army will naturally collapse But it's not an ultimate solution Come, let me show you around All you know is that my tribe raids cities killing and looting but you haven't seen that behind my warriors are food shortage and groaning sufferers Many years ago We lost our grassland My brother once turned to General Xiao for help only to learn that the general was killed by your emperor because he negotiated peace with us My brother was even seen as an intruder by the Hua family's troops who guarded the city He narrowly escaped death at the foot of the city wall Brother, you are hurt Ayimu Soon after my brother came back with wounds he motivated clansmen and started a war against the East But I know war cannot change our destiny Later, inspired by the leader of magic beasts I formed a wolf cavalry to look for new grassland and the lost halidom lest greater war casualties are caused as the endless war has shattered my clansmen's hope for peace Do you think the killing of my brother is a once-and-for-all solution to these problems? All we want is peace Late General Xiao understood so does Xiao Zhen Now the Zhao Dynasty is at war with the Barbarian Tribe if we focus on personal enmity when can the war be ended? You lied to me Mr. Ning Mr. Ning Are you OK? You are hurt It doesn't matter Wuchang How much longer do we have to go? Just over this mountain is the evacuation point There Princess Chinu has prepared horses and supplies for us Do we have to climb the mountain? This is the shortest route If we make a detour, it will take seven days. Let's go With the power of the leader of magic beasts One can communicate with all kinds of beasts As I expect, it's you, Ayimu Hey, those guys in front of me, hurry up I can hardly climb anymore Xiao, you must grasp the rock tightly because the lives of all four of us hinge on your hands Xiao, why don't you let me help you get rid of those burdens? Hua Wuchang, if you dare to cut the rope I will always haunt you after I become a ghost Miss Hua Go up Xiao, you are not just my lifelong friend After we go back I will worship heaven and let it witness that we become sworn brothers Knock it off Go prepare seals with little monk Time is running out OK I'm sorry For what? For no reason It's baffling That's how my Hua family apologizes Unacceptable? Just take it Wuchang, you Cut the crap My master is right. He says women in the secular world are all tigers Wine, where do you get it? When I escaped from the brothel I pick it up on the sly Little monk, have some more drinks Press, press it yourself OK Put on your clothes Thank you Wuchang Do you think we can do it this time? I think what late General Xiao once did you can do too Your sister's arrows I found them at the bottom of the cliff There are only three left Are you ready? Let's go Let's go This is the Four-Elephants-Subduing-Demons battle array that my master imparted to me Any demons entering the battle array will surely be destroyed The battle array uses our blood as the medium The more the blood, the greater its power As the halidom has been worshiped with blood sacrifices we can start it with blood. Perfect. Kill two birds with one stone Wait This is not the way of sealing We didn't go to the altar Besides, the magic tools for sealing were left in the brothel So, a moment later whatever jumps out of the halidom let's cripple it first with the battle array And little monk uses his Buddhist Vajra Seal to temporarily suppress it Then we bring it back to the Demon-suppressing Department by horse as fast as possible There we can ask kungfu masters to reinforce the seal Bad idea. We can give it a try I once read this method in one file of the Demon-suppressing Department It is risky but in this situation it's worth a shot We can decide how much blood we give according to what happens What's wrong, Ning Wumou? I don't know either Xiao, you have always set your heart on clearing the name of your father so why not take this opportunity to capture the leader of magic beasts kill the king of Barbarian Tribe, and defeat the barbarian army? Then you go back to the imperial court alone to receive the reward Therefore, you can revive the Xiao family and bring glory to it Oh, by the way I can scheme to make your colleagues die in the chaos of war, eliminating all possibilities of future trouble for you What's in it for you? It will take me a long time to help Chinu Haer absorb the leader of magic beasts with blood sacrifices Xiao, you are a perfect container You can absorb the leader of magic beasts in a flash I try to remove the eight seals just for Celestial Master Yuxu I don't care about whose body the leader is in? Blood Blood What are you doing? Do you want him to be as bloodthirsty as the King of the Barbarian Tribe? Kill them all Take the reward alone Kill Both the Hua family and the Wu family framed your father Kill Kill Kill Xiao Don't come over The Four-Elephants-Subduing-Demons battle array Do you want to kill me? Let go of him Let go of him How could I kill you? You and I are brothers with a shared fate If I died in your hands today I would not regret it Come on Let's fight it out Quick, let him drink this I have sinned. I have sinned What is it? Don't mind it Ms. Gu You're really eloquent but you said something wrong They are not my colleagues They are my brothers with a shared fate It tastes terrible Thank all of you for pulling me back Little monk What the hell did you give him to drink? Don't mind it I have sinned. I have sinned Thank heavens, I have found you Our princess has been caught by General Chinu He plans to sacrifice her and take away the power she has gained from the leader of magic beasts Please save her What Princess also has gained power from the leader of magic beasts That day, she summoned birds to help us escape So She is the real king of the Barbarian Tribe That means we have to go back, huh? I have an idea We go to the brothel to fetch the magic tools of the Demon-suppressing Department With these tools, we are sure to seal in Chinu- whatever the badass is called When will the sacrifice take place? Just tomorrow night My king The time has come for sacrifice The Barbarian Tribe can't have two kings Today I'm going to take your life with General Xiao's saber. Mercy and benevolence can't ensure a way out for our tribe Still intact There are even clothes in it They are called Kylin clothes Xiao Zhen Hua Wuchang This is mine This name is Guan Chuang It's me. It's me. That's my original name My master told me to join the Demon-suppressing Department after I left the temple last time Why do you have a title the moment you joined the department? It turns out that my sister has prepared all these for us I, Chinu Haer will obey the will of the leader of magic beasts to lead our tribe toward victory We warriors from the Demon-suppressing Department of Zhao are here to execute the order of heaven to eliminate demons and promote justice All of you are here now General Chinu I advise you to drop your saber Let us help you contain the bloodthirsty evil in your body lest you make more mistakes As I have told you Give me the halidom and I won't tear your bodies into pieces Aren't they advanced magical tools? Cover me when I rush up to rescue the princess I will stall Chinu Haer You take the princess and withdraw first What about you? Madam I have confidence in General Xiao Guan Chuang, Wuchang Here we go Wind and thunder Go help Xiao Zhen. I can take care of it Swap the wind and the thunder Xiao Take princess and withdraw first Quick Go to hell Little Monk Don't you always say women in the secular world are all tigers? You nasty taoist, there is no time to be kidding Withdraw. Hurry up Stop You can take my saber from me Really awesome It was originally my father's saber You don't deserve to have it You are the son of General Xiao Fragile peace can't ensure a way out for our tribe as is proved by the father's death You, just a flunky of Zhao how dare you steal power from the leader of magic beasts? Little rat Little monk Why don't you use your golden Buddhist shield? I can only use it once every seven days Damn your shield. So many restrictions Put me down Stop My brave soldiers We started marching east to find a new homeland and keep our families from hunger and illness But now What has the eight years of war brought to us? Our tribe's courage and belief are not simply for war but more importantly, for the wives who prepare food with a sunny smile and the children who ride horses freely on the grassland I, in the name of the king of our tribe swear to you even at the cost of my life I will lead you back to our grassland No more vagrant life Go Go Chinu Haer, let go of them If you bite the leader of magic beasts will become insatiably bloodthirsty Then it will be harder for you to escape from the witchcraft of the Set of the Rebirth Mom The leader of magic beasts only prefers his king rather than a thief like you You are incurable Boy, run The leader of magic beasts only prefers his king Just now if you used a saber rather than a dagger and performed the eighth movement for formation breaking maybe you could be a match for me There you go again Animaosi The leader of beasts Why Brother Ayimu Lead our tribe to a better future That stuff Do you have any? You scared me again We, in the name of the Demon-suppressing Department have applied for supplies They are supposed to arrive here within several days Princess Chinu what are you going to do next? I will lead my people in search of new grassland far away from Zhao and free of war Hey You held her only once Obviously, you have a crush on her Women in the secular world are all tigers Women in the secular world are all tigers Women in the secular world are all tigers Are you guys gonna leave or not? Princess, good-bye Trot Little monk, you have grown your hair I I have resumed my secular life I see First, you broke the precept of no drinking then the precept of no killing How about you follow me to break the precept of no sexual activity someday? Wumou, we are in the council chamber Be serious Xiao Oh no, I should call you boss now I heard the commander had proposed the emperor reward you for your great feat Soon you will become a big shot In accordance with the imperial edit Xiao Zhen, for his great feat in the westward expedition has been appointed as Demon-sealing Lieutenant in charge of Four-elephant Camp Hua Wuchang, Ning Wumou, and Guan Chuang have been all promoted to a higher rank As you were Thank our emperor for his grace Recently the vicious Sect of rebirth is ready to make trouble in the southwest I order you to go there immediately and make a thorough investigation Yes, sir Madam We have brought back her corpse