Transcript for Incense for the Damned (1971) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Richard Fountain: son of the foreign secretary and brilliant young Oxford don enjoys sailing with his pupil, Bob Kirby He's unofficially engaged to Penelope Goodrich, daughter of Walter Goodrich, provost of Lancaster College. Fountain is an authority on Greek mythology and is at present in Greece, researching material for a book on Minoan rites. I was informed by the Foreign Office that reports had been received from Greece that Richard Fountain was involved with a group of people suspected of drug and other criminal offences. As neither government wanted a political scandal on their hands, I was asked to investigate the matter. I felt sure there had been a mistake. The information certainly didn't fit with the Richard I knew. We had met some years ago when we were both undergraduates at Oxford. Richard was Walter Goodrich's protégé, and after his finals was offered a post as lecturer at Lancaster College. I had since been told how Goodrich had attempted to organise both Richard's private and professional life. So as a first step, I decided to visit Oxford and try to find out more about the state of mind he was in before he went to Greece. Hello, Mr Seymour! Nice to see you again Parker Nice to have seen you sir - Seymour, how are you? - Very well, good to see you again Glad you could make it Our brother still gives the best parties at Oxford We're worried about Richard We were expecting him back from Greece two days ago Richard may not get back from Greece What's that I hear about Richard? I'm so sorry, we haven't been introduced: Bob Kirby Bob is Richard's star pupil How do you know so much about Richard? - I had a phone call from Richard's father. - Typical Bloody socialist ministers His father may be Foreign Secretary, but he has no sense of protocol - Why didn't he call me? - It's all a mystery. Well it's all a bit vague, the Foreign Office called me as well The Foreign Office? Yes, apparently Richard's in some sort of trouble - What kind of trouble? - The Greek authorities But he would have written to me What did he do? He took a Greek colonel. Don't be facetious Marc - He does have quite a temper - Richard's not violent His only fight now is to get to the top of this college and succeed me when I retire The youngest Oxford provost ever The facts are that someone in the government is worried What about? The possibility of an international scandal I readily agreed with Penelope and Bob Kirby insisted on coming to Greece with me, feeling that their knowledge of Richard would be useful so we left next day on the first available flight A scandal could be extremely damaging politically, and for Richard's career - Career? - Oh don't start on that kick again Bob! You think he dug every little scheme that you and your father made for him, don't you? Daddy helped Richard a lot! Oh come on, you've done your share of pushing too! - You're just jealous - Of what? Now shut up, both of you You've done nothing but argue ever since we left England You said you wanted to help Richard! I do. - Then help him Behave like adults or go home On arrival in Athens, I went straight to see my contact there, the British military attaché Derek Longbow Does Penelope know? Not the full details, obviously, because of security But I think she might be quite useful - She and Richard are going to get engaged. - Oh! I think she's going to be in for a bit of a shock What do you know about this girl that Richard's keeping company with? Chriseis Konstantinini - I met her in a party. - Where? - At Johnny Katamandris' - Katamandris... Katamandris... I'm afraid I've rather lost touch with the Greek social scene, Derek - Could you fill me in? - A jet set Johnny Katamandris is the son of Colonel Katamandris, their Minister of the Interior Along with our Foreign Secretary's son, it makes quite a party But Richard was in Mykonos, getting on with his research! Strange kind of research, with that lot! What do you think's going on, some kind of intrigue? Blackmail? Isn't that what you're here to find out? And you've got to help me Derek - How's Richard mixed up with that crowd? - I've no idea but I understand they're always together Cable Richard to stay put in Mykonos, til we get there * Baby, don't you flash your evil eyes at me * * I know you'd like to get your clutches into me * * Better learn to cast your spell some other way * * Always trippin' out your mind is made to waste * * Well I don't want to taste the evil that you taste * * You don't know what glove could ever guide your hand * Eleni! * Screams * * Siren * * Praying in Greek * Did you tell her yet? Well if you haven't now's the time we don't want an emotional scene in public, do we? Tell her! If Richard's on the dockside to greet us with the girl... Yes, yes I see your point I'll go and tell her - Hello Penelope - Hello Penelope, when all this started and I got the details about Richard, there was something I didn't tell you - What? - Well it seems there's another woman Her name is Chriseis - Don't you think you've had enough? - Mind your own business Penelope, I know you're hurt about the girl, but you must try... Excuse me - I've been to the villa - And? - They've gone - Well where to? Uh... destination unknown * Police talk in Greek * - I gave that to Richard - Well what is it? A sort of... charm - Where did you find it? - At the police station They have files on all their guests especially those who leave without paying their bills Evidently all they left up in their room was this And this notebook... It must make some sense Ariston men hydor... Water is best What on earth is Richard running away from? Whatever it was, they were in a desperate hurry - Why, the police? - No, us Perhaps he's heard you and I are here too He wouldn't like that, would he? - Now he's got Chriseis - Chriseis is your hang up Is she? Oh come on Bob, we've both failed Richard He doesn't want either of us now! Just because you couldn't make it with him! I'll take care of her, leave her to me - Look, this isn't getting us anywhere - She's pushing her luck! Alright, so she's upset about the girl, but if... - You, uh... couldn't make it? - What? That's what you said to Penelope, wasn't it? - What couldn't she make? - Richard - Is that a guess or do you know? - Know! Well... he told me He was very depressed, and... well, it all came out And incidentally, I'm not homosexual you know - And there was nothing between Richard... - No, no I understand It goes much deeper than that Richard never told you, or Penelope, but... he's never made it with anyone I refuse to continue this conversation any further, will you please leave my room Oh yes, I'm getting through to you, aren't I? I know what you wanted from Richard... Prestige, status, your face in the glossy magazines "The honourable Lady Fountain entertains" You do talk a lot of rubbish I don't give a damn what you want - What I want is to find Richard - So do I - Well will you stop fighting me? - Are you going? - No! - Right. Then I am Ice sweeties? Help! Help! Help! * Siren * * Woman shouts in Greek * ... theory is that Richard believes that Walter Goodrich caused his impotence Ha ha I can imagine that type of classic resentment happening here, in the theatre of Minas So of those Minoan rites were, to the say the very least of it, unsavoury But you can hardly believe that Minoan rites could take place in Oxford Can you imagine a don being castrated by the provost? It's really metaphorical. You see, the promise to Richard is a symbol of the establishment And to Richard, the establishment destroys, castrates... For example, Richard's marriage to Penelope or Goodrich's continual academic wheeling and dealing - That's irrational - According to Bob, Richard came to Greece in search of some sort of freedom Uh huh - To seek his manhood - Oh! Well, they say that this climate works wonders for that sort of thing Maybe Bob's African background has given him a sort of vivid imagination - Do you think he was right? - I'm not sure - Hydra... - Hydra? I knew there was something... A couple of years ago there was a scandal... It involved Johnny Katamandris It was pretty bad... I think that Richard left this notebook for us to find Yes, go on He could have been taken to Hydra, possibly against his will Why Hydra? Some ancient religious cults... cruel, vicious are rumoured to still exist on the island now despite denials by the Greek Orthodox church Wait a minute... Didn't Hercules sack the city of Hydra because of the vicious behaviour of its inhabitants? Yes... That's mythological history, of course. On the other hand, history does have a way of repeating itself * Policeman speaks Greek, asks for Major Longbow * Ego * Policeman and Longbow speak Greek * * Policeman speaks Greek * This old woman's daughter was murdered * Policeman speaks Greek, mentions Richard Fountain * What was that he was saying about Richard? The police want to question him, seeing as there were similar occurrences in Corinth and Mykonos when Richard was there * Policeman speaks Greek * The inspector wants to know whether to charge the old woman No, no charges. Can you let her go? Okey dokey. * Policemen speak Greek * - Where are they taking her? - To the hospital She'll be well taken care of * Policeman speaks Greek, mentions Richard Fountain * - Do we know where Richard is? - No We needed help if we were to find Richard quickly so we contacted Colonel Stavros of the Greek intelligence I can assure you, Colonel, that we'll stick to our side of the bargain Good! I'm sure Mr Fountain's father, such a friend of Greece, would not wish him involved on any scandal on Greek soil We'll try and have Fountain out of the country within 48 hours. Excellent Now we must go to the airport. I have placed a helicopter at your disposal. - Efharisto, Colonel - Hm! You are very welcome I have instructed the Mayor of Hydra to give you every assistance - Thank you very much Colonel. Goodbye! - Goodbye * Priest prays in Greek * - Where did the mayor go? - Next transport All this red carpet treatment... I'm beginning to think that Richard is a reincarnation of Lord Byron The authorities are faced with a major problem - Whatever Richard's been up to... - Murder? Don't be so dramatic Penelope, there's no proof However, obviously Richard's been involved in some kind of scandal... with a very important Greek The Greek government are just as anxious as we are to get Richard out of the country I bet... Anything to save some Greek VIP A habit which, I fear, is not the exclusive province of the Greeks Suppose it was murder? * Woman singing * * Boy speaks Greek * I see... And where does that path lead to? The monastery... Haematos Christou If it was Richard he's sick They've taken him to the monastery of the blood of Christ Well thank you very much Yannis for your help and transport Bye! Not far now Well don't you see, Tony? Hydra: the hundred-headed monster Each head, when it was cut off, grew again by nature of some power derived from its central body A kind of infection, guaranteeing immortality - But that's mythology - But doesn't it remind you of any cult or superstition? It reminds me of all superstitions... Christianity, for one The Abbott says that in fact Chriseis did bring him up here to be cured but the monks have treated him - Cured? What from? - An ancient sickness Go on. Apparently, she doesn't want him to be cured, merely to be kept alive Now he says that he thinks that she loves him but that when she has no further use for him she'll cast him off * Abbott speaks Greek * Then let him die Now, what's he talking about? Do you know what he means? I think I do... Centuries ago, the people of Hydra brought this curse to the island The monks tried to fight it and in so doing found a cure for it What form does this curse or sickness take? It's... to do with the blood Are you alright Penelope? Yes, I think I'll just go for a walk She looked a bit sick, maybe I should go with her No, stay where you are * Abbott speaks Greek * * Abbott speaks Greek * No, I'll be alright, thank you Yes... The Abbott says they took this mountain pass Where does it lead to? To that old fort up there A journey of about two, three hours Two or three hours? It's only five miles, we can use the Landrover It's not passable, it's just a mule track * Screams * * Abbott speaks Greek * What's that all about? The monks' cells are normally out of bounds to women but in this case the Abbott has given his permission You didn't just leave him there did you? - Leave who there? - Richard He was lying there... Dead - Where? - In the temple, out there You come with me - Look! - What happened? The monks make some great moonshine You were suffering from wine plus sunshine, nothing worse You just take it easy now - You don't have to go do you? - I must. The Abbott will look after you - Take me with you - Now you rest We'll be back as soon as we can, and with Richard Thank you * Abbott speaks Greek * * Chriseis whispers in Greek * * Chriseis whispers in Greek * Richard... Richard... * Chriseis whispers in Greek * * Chriseis shouts in Greek * * A scream * No! Are you alright? Put this on Tony! He's in a trance! - They've taken the mules - They've what!? Bastards! - We'd better carry him down - In the dark? - No we wait til dawn - Could you take the two kids with you? - Right - Pick up Penelope at the monastery... and get her off the island And Richard? I don't want Penelope to see him like this Bob? He's awake I got your cable in... Mykonos I wanted to stay til you came, but... Chriseis's influence was too strong I found myself... speaking in riddles I was trying to cheat her... or you I don't know It was a pretty crazy riddle "Ariston men hydor" Hydo... Hydra... You understood It was Derek Longbow A classical education still has its uses - Where's Chriseis? - She's gone - Try to sleep - You must watch for her She'll be back He's too weak to travel He's too sick to be carried down in this condition I'll just have to pick up any sort of transport I can get. Wait - Where are you going? - Down to Hydra. To make some arrangements - To get us out of here - You can't go... Not yet Anyone... I must... protect you... - Bob? - Yes? Take me outside... Place me facing the mountains Please... Alright O Zeus... Put strength back into my limbs Grant a safe passage to our friends.. and deliver us from the evil... O great father of the gods... send us a sign... What's this all about? All this looking up at the sky seems to be placating the gods * High-pitched wail * * High-pitched wail * Take care Derek Look out! The eagle! The eagle The eagle - did you see the sign? - Didn't you count? - Count what? There are six people here... and the eagle only swooped five times I'll get back as soon as I can That means one of us must die here... ...soon I couldn't fight her I thought that she loved me I loved her I thought she was the escape I was looking for but even then I couldn't... - I couldn't... - You don't have to tell us I must... in case she comes back Go on, Richard I couldn't... make love to her But Chriseis said it didn't matter She said there were other things What things, Richard? If we're going to help you, we must know - Where is Richard? - I told you... at the fort Now don't worry, Richard is going to be alright You said in a state of shock! Don't try to hide anything Derek, how bad is he? Well he's suffering from some kind of hallucination It would be better if he didn't see you until he was in England Now you go home, and say nothing That won't be difficult if you don't explain! Oh I wish I knew what the hell was happening. What am I going to tell father? Absolutely nothing! Just tell him that Richard was taken ill, and Tony will explain it all later Now bon voyage, have a good trip! - Bye! - Bye bye! - I need your help - Of course * Speaks Greek * - Athens - Athens? They don't trust us to carry out their instructions. Why? They sent someone to interfere - He is waiting for you there. - Oh! Colonel Stavros What did you find? Well, uh... it was some kind of orgiastic ritual - And Fountain? - He wasn't involved He was in a hypnotic trance You expect us to accept that story? In Corinth, Mykonos, Crete, Fountain was merely an... - ...an accessory after the fact - Yes Major, this is an order. Get Fountain out of Greece not one minute... That's exactly what we intend to do Uh... we need to use your helicopter again - In the mountains? - We can take landing panels Very well - I will help you all I can - Thank you, Colonel Derek's taking his time, hope there's nothing wrong The whole thing is wrong... but you can't see it Now look, I've been through the whole syllabus of sexual deviation, if you know, tell me Look, I might as well put on a headdress, some warpaint, and dance around you three times You'll never believe it Swooping eagles! Monks with phoney cures! Ritualistic murder! There's got to be a perfectly logical explanation, not this mumbo jumbo! Mumbo jumbo! I suppose you don't believe in superstition? No - Never walked around a ladder? - Never Or thrown salt over your shoulder? * Speaks Greek * Alright... what's your explanation? - Dependence - What? Dependence! Richard came to Greece in search of freedom The plan backfired, and he became dependent on Chriseis because she's the inheritress of an ancient and obscene practice Come on Bob! In this day and age? Look, only a year back, a man was sacrificed in a London park You've got your witches' covens in Mayfair, voodoo in Soho, how do you explain that? Logic?! Science?! * Groaning, screaming * * Calling for help * This way! Must be Chriseis! Go back! Give me your hand! * Chriseis screams * Derek! Find a foothold! * Chriseis screams * * Derek screams * Bob...! Bob...! Bob! - You've killed her - It was an accident We've got to get off the island fast... Help me with Richard She's not dead yet! What the hell are you trying to do you bloody fool! It was an accident... What do you want to do, make it murder? Hours seemed to pass before the helicopter arrived to pick us up We had a difficult time convincing the authorities in Athens with our story but were finally allowed to take Richard back to England - Hello Tony! - Oh hello Basil, how nice to see you - Sad business - Yes - How did in happen? - In Hydra - Where's he buried? - Athens He'd have liked that. Derek was fond of Greece. You know when I... Basil, lovely to see you again, but I must dash. Let's have dinner some time. - Yes Richard! - Where are you going? - Oxford - Take care - Of course The one man I knew who might logically explain the events in Greece was Professor Holmstrom Well, vampirism is a phenomenon popularly associated with central and eastern Europe It is however, of course, universal though happily extremely rare The romantic aspects of vampirism we know, of course, mainly through the movies Count Dracula and such... the immortal bloodsucker with the overdeveloped molars... graves opening at sunset as he goes forth on his nightly prowl for beautiful victims... garlands of garlic to prevent our heroine from donating her blood to an unworthy cause... the dreaded holy cross, blinding the eyes of our thirsty villain... and finally, his gory demise, as the stake pierces his heart and sends his tormented soul into another world That's charming, isn't it? Well, so much for the legend of vampirism, Tony Ha, hokum I call it You can call it what you like. I happen to have spent a whole lifetime studying the origins of man, you see, so I know that there is a more serious and scientific aspect For instance, did you know that vampirism is a sexual perversion? Erik, this is no time for jokes Sado-masochism, my dear man, is no joke Now, sado-masochistic perversions, as you know, are more likely to appeal to frigid females and impotent males This, uh... friend of yours, what's his name? What's his sexual status? Do you know, I really don't know Ah... um. Well... Example: the man is impotent Oh, he's searching for fulfilment He meets a girl or, even a man I suppose Let's skip the rather special cases of the homosexual vampire shall we? Alright, anybody, anybody, male or female provided... they satisfy his sexual appetites Are you trying to tell me that... a girl sucking blood from a man's neck... - ... can induce an orgasm? - Yes of course! - Huh...! Erik! - Oh no, come come Tony, don't be so naive Man works and loves in many ways Some men, for instance, get excitement only from statues The Pygmalion syndrome Other men can only make love in a coffin You have voyeurs, transvestites, narcissists, bestialists... Ah, it's a funny old world we live in And, by the same token, you also have masochistic vampires Now, if this is the case with your friend... well, I must tell you that there is a grave risk The best advice I can give you is to make sure that he's not reminded of it I'll do that... I'm sure with some rest he'll recover Back at college Richard rested then returned to his sporting activities and studies The shadow began to lift, and his life seemed gradually to return to normality Now, Richard, I hope you won't mind my talking shop two weeks before term - Even if I did it wouldn't stop you! - Quite! I've got rather a tight schedule for you I'm afraid First, there's your official welcome back to college at the quincentenary dinner Lovely party Walter! - So very glad you could come - Thank you - I suppose I'll have to make a speech - Or just something short and witty Then I've arranged that course of lectures for you at Manchester In term, with all my other commitments?! Good money, plus expenses. Help your status, dear boy And now for our other spot of business... your engagement to Penelope I shall make the announcement tonight Aren't you rather taking things for granted, sir? I've hardly discussed the matter with Penelope. I have She's thrilled! Penelope darling, I'm so delighted! To Penelope and Richard, long life and happiness! Cheers! (God help them both) I'm not even in college this term! I've been put into some lousy boarding house on the Woodstock Road Who arranged that? Doctor Walter Goodrich... who else? Bastard! We're back to square one, Richard Chriseis won't like that Chriseis won't like that at all Happy, darling? - Yes, of course I am - How do you feel? Look...! I must finish this chapter tonight I'm in the way...! oh, ... I'm sorry - I'll see you tomorrow - Alright my darling Don't work too late - Night, Richard - Night * Woman singing * * Woman singing * * Woman singing * * Singing voices multiply * Chriseis? Chriseis? Well that's what Marc Honeydew wrote me That your father's been putting the pressure on Richard again - Marc Honeydew's an old woman! - Let's stick to the point, shall we? Daddy is not putting the pressure on Richard, he's arranging things out of kindness Then tell your father that type of kindness can kill Oh, stop being such a bloody bully, Tony, I'm doing my best Well it's just not good enough... Hello? Hello...? Penelope? Bob Kirby rang me and said it was vital I come to Oxford immediately There were signs that Richard was beginning to crack again Excuse me, have you seen Mr Kirby? Mr Kirby! Bob! Geoff, will you excuse me a minute please? Ok, Bob, what's all this about? Are you sure? Quite. But that's impossible, she just can't be... Look I told you what we should have done in Greece but you wouldn't listen to me - That is over - Is it? Alright! The point is, it mustn't get any worse - Let's get him out of Oxford - It's Richard's speech tonight - Speech? What speech? - The quincentenary dinner Do you remember at the Vice Chancellor's election, there was the most frightful scene? Charles Crabtree, that most long-winded of orators Oh, and talking of speeches, you will keep yours brief, won't you dear boy? Of course. Well, Charles's bladder had grown weak with the years... And at the pay-off of some thirty minute anecdote of total tedium he suddenly flew from the high table with his gown billowing out behind him like Count Dracula's cloak * Laughter * Come along, Robert, time for din-dins We mustn't keep dear Dr Goodrich waiting In nomine beati Henrici, sit felicitas vobiscum Nobiscum et tecum et cum spiritu beati Henrici - You've dined in the hall before? - Yes I have Your Royal Highness... your Excellency... my lords, ladies, and gentlemen It is my very great pleasure this evening as provost of Lancaster College in the University of Oxford to welcome back to college our truly beloved Magistri, Richard Fountain! Redeuntis et acclamandi My friends! When a man comes back from abroad, it is, as you know, an ancient custom that he brings a message Mine is a message of freedom! Let us beware of those who seek to possess our bodies and our minds for the academic world dehumanises us and we become its natural dependents "Love me!" says the academic, "and do exactly as I tell you" In this protection racket of the establishment the outsiders are labelled "them", the collective enemy the reds, the blacks, the whites, the yellow peril... We are brainwashed into the same hatreds of the same threats and over the years our behaviour has become captive and so in brotherhood we plunge to our own destruction But the gods! The gods have given us freedom, my friends Do not be trapped by the petty schemes of academic hirelings the thieves who come to take your souls sitting among you now... smooth deceivers... in scarlet gowns, preparing as soon as they rise from this table to leech onto you! Such a man is sitting there... or there... or there or there Worst of all - there! Richard! But that's not all, my friends - Use your power... exercise your... - Richard! Enough, Richard! Enough! Leave him alone, you've had your chance! - Richard? Take it easy - Don't touch me Come on! Quiet! Keep quiet and sit down! I command you! Richard! Through there! - Where did they go? - Come on! * Woman singing * Richard... Richard... Richard... Make love to me... Love me... love me Richard Love me... kiss me... make love to me Richard Richard... * She screams * In there! My God! Richard! God! * Bird shrieks * * Richard screams * As provost of Lancaster College in the University of Oxford... I am empowered to act as coroner, in respect of death which occurred within the college precincts The privilege was granted to all provosts of this college by our founder, King Henry VI and has been countenanced by his royal successors The inquest may take place in private, without the presence of the press the police, or any other outside authority Only the verdict need be made public It is my verdict... that Penelope... that Penelope Goodrich... and Richard Fountain... being misused by the world, did in equal consent take their own lives the one by the letting of blood the other by falling from a college building while temporarily of unsound mind May God... and our beloved founder... have pity for their souls Officially the matter was closed but as Bob had realised, back in Greece I now knew there was one last act still to be carried out I can't go through with it! - We have to - I can't!