Transcript for Strange Powers: Stephin Merritt and the Magnetic Fields (2010) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (cup clinks on table) - Let me think of a lie because I don't actually say what, (clears throat) what I'm reading right now is something I want to do an opera of, and I don't actually want to put that on film. I love your shoes! - [Voiceover] Thank you. - What can I say I'm reading right now? A copy of Bambi Lake's autobiography. Bambi Lake is a crossgendered celebrity of San Francisco, and a book on the life of human cadavers, life, as it were, of human cadavers. And last night, I read Dr. Seuss's Scrambled Eggs Super! ♪ Caution, caution, caution ♪ To prevent electric shock ♪ Do not, do not, do not remove cover ♪ No user-serviceable parts inside ♪ Refer servicing to qualified ♪ Service personnel ♪ Let this be the epitaph for my heart ♪ Cupid put too much poison in the dart ♪ This is the epitaph for my heart ♪ Because it's gone, gone ♪ Gone ♪ And life goes on and on and on ♪ And it goes on ♪ World without end ♪ And you're not my friend This is... cigar box uke. This is a kamaka pineapple uke. (strums ukulele) Very different sound. This is a resonator uke. (strums ukulele) (strumming ukulele) (audience applauding) - We're nearing an end of a tour that's from our recent album, i, which the French call "ih." (audience laughing) - The Spanish call it "eeh." (Claudia mimics Stephin) The French call it "ih." (Claudia mimics Stephin) - Anyway. - [Stephin] In English. (audience laughing) What's "anymore" in German? (audience member speaking) What? - She was changing the subject. - Oh, that's not helpful though. (audience laughing) How do you count to four in Finnish? - Finnish? Anybody? One-oh, two-oh, three-oh, four-oh. (laughs) - That's Italian. (Claudia and audience laughing) - And a-one, and a-two. (audience applauding) ♪ Come back from San Francisco ♪ It can't be all that pretty ♪ When all of New York City misses you ♪ Should pretty boys in discos ♪ Distract your from your novel ♪ Remember I'm awful in love with you ♪ You need me ♪ Like the wind needs the trees ♪ To blow in ♪ Like the moon needs poetry ♪ You need me ♪ Ooh ♪ You need me ♪ Like the wind needs the trees ♪ To blow in ♪ Like the moon needs poetry ♪ You need me ♪ When you ♪ Betray me, betray me with a kiss ♪ Damn you ♪ I've never stayed up ♪ As late as this (audience cheering and applauding) - I was introduced to The Magnetic Fields by a friend in New York, and the more time I spent with the music, the more I got to think this is really one of America's great songwriters at work. There is a sort of conversational simplicity to some of the lyrics, and yet, very emotional in places, very wise and smart at the same time, and funny. They are great words and great melodies. - He seems like somebody who's a poet inside, and, like, maybe a mean outer shell to protect it. That's what I would guess, that's what I fantasize. - There are some people who have the notion that art, and maybe particularly pop music, should be about honesty, that you're revealing yourself. Stephin is the opposite of that. All the songs have that self-conscious sensibility and they're all kind of gilded. At best, you could maybe find parts of his life very obliquely in his work, but that's not what he's doing. - It wasn't really until about '95, '96 that I found my first article on Stephin Merritt. And the Stephin Merritt, as portrayed in the article, was the grumpiest, meanest, most unpleasant person alive. He made Lou Reed look like Little Orphan Annie, as portrayed in the interview. (bright music) - Earlier in this record's life, I was going into outside studios and playing drum kits and being very rock and roll. And then, this part of the recording period, I'm mostly being very dainty and doing little funky instruments that are not very usual, such as-- - [Stephin] Whisks. - Whisks. Have you ever used these whisks for the act of cooking? Ever? - [Stephin] No. - Oh, just curious. (clanging) Gigantic oversized tambourines. (banging) That might be nice. A thingy that you turn and it sort of is connected to a string and-- - [Stephin] Frog caller. - Frog call, it calls frogs? (tapping frog caller) It's magic. (tapping frog caller) How does it work? - [Stephin] Isn't that fun? (tapping frog caller) - [Claudia] This is nice. - It's like this charm thing, only plastic cups, and it makes this beautiful rustling. It's actually pretty loud. - Gongy things and all that sort of stuff. (banging loudly) ♪ Now the clock is striking 1:00 ♪ Go (mimics hitting drum), yeah, I understand. If you wanna have this sort of, like, wall of sound, (mimicking hitting drum) thing, I could also double it with a gong. Would you rather that I did gong? (mimics hitting gong) Yeah, I could hit it with something percussive, like a rubber mallet. Oh, this got tangled in every possible way you can imagine. - It's the theme for the day. - Every single thing. (drum beating) - I've outgrown my mallet box. Maybe I keep the whisks in the kitchen. Beautiful. - This is a good instrument, Stephin. - It cost, like, $8. Isn't that great? - Yes, most good things in life cost $8. I think we should put the (mumbling) on this at random too, don't you think, Stephin? - [Stephin] Every time you hear the word "love." (bell dings) I went to school with Claudia's sister and one day, I went to their house, and there was Claudia, practicing the piano. Claudia got out her David Bowie song book and we bonded over complex chord changes and early David Bowie songs. - I think that my relationship to him is somewhat motherly at times, especially when I'm, like, you know, making sure that he gets to this place, or worrying about his health, or, you know, this sort of mother manager weird. Literally just deeply care about him. It's like mothers feel like friends and fag hags feel like wives, or, I mean, those things go on. Those lines get blended anyway. - [Stephin] Pretty much immediately we formed several bands. Claudia and I were in John, which was named after our friend John. And then later, Claudia was in The Magnetic Fields with me as well. - [Claudia] One, two, three, four, five, six. (warm upbeat music) - This is in 6/8 so it's dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, we play two measures. - [Claudia] One, two, three, bum, bum, bum, bum. - [Sam] So it's a quarter note. - [Claudia] Is it? - Well, we're in, we're counting-- - [Claudia] It's two on three, is what it is. Yeah, it is a quarter note, okay. - I kind of always wanted to be in a rockin' band. (laughs) I mean, I think, like, almost, like, ACDC would be my dream, or maybe Boston. (eraser rubbing paper) (warm upbeat music) (strumming guitar) - How's your playing with a quarter technique? (strumming guitar) (coins jingling) - I could try it. Actually, I think a dime would be better. - [Stephin] I did all the bass with a quarter. - I was walking out of my apartment, on the corner of Waverly and Waverly in the West Village, and I happened to run into Stephin. And (laughs) he said, "Hello." And I said, "Hi, Stephin, how are you?" And he said, "You play guitar?" And I said, "Yes." And he said, "Do you have a guitar? "Do you own a guitar?" I said, "Yes." He said, "Hmm. "You're our new guitarist." And I said, "I am?" And I think that's how I learned that I was gonna be a member of the band. (tinkling piano music) - [Claudia] I think there's something wrong. ♪ But since she's a princess ♪ There's hints of a prince in the end ♪ End - [Stephin] Something wrong with. - What's the timing of that? (laughing) (Claudia scatting) ♪ Be outcast from the castle with nary a friend ♪ (both scatting) But it's in three-four, so why am I doing four of them? - It's another measure. - [Claudia] Uh, but that's not working with the three-four time thing. - Sure it is. ♪ She will fast be outcast from her castle ♪ With nary a friend (Claudia scatting) - [Stephin] Ah, are we trying to do the tune? - Well, I mean, I'm sorry I didn't hit the thing within a fraction of a second, but it still, roughly, is in the place where it should have been. - [Stephin] You're just, you're on the wrong beat. ♪ But since she's a princess ♪ There's hints of a prince - [Claudia] That's wrong, Stephin. - No, it's not. - [Claudia] Well, then you're really teaching me something wrong because that's what you said. What you just did is not what-- - Just stay on the same meter. (Claudia scatting) One, two, three, one, two, three, one, two. ♪ But since she's a - [Claudia] Yeah, you didn't do that. - That's what I did. - [Claudia] It's not! - I didn't do "but." - [Claudia] No, you were in a different place than me when you came back in. You better get that right or else we're not gonna be able to do this. - Just do it-- - Tap it out on the piano. - Okay. (tapping) (laughing) - Just wait. ♪ Me a kind of Oh, from the beginning? - [Stephin] No. - You don't have to do that, just-- ♪ She will fast be outcast from ♪ - But I'm trying to figure out which beat I'm ending up on. ♪ She will fast be outcast from her castle ♪ With nary a friend ♪ But since she's - I see what you want me to to do, okay. ♪ There's hints of a prince So, while you're singing. ♪ Be a song - Yeah. - Okay, so let's do that again. - Claudia and I argue several times a day, and we always seem to make up instantly, but it can be very frustrating that we're yelling at each other all the time. But it's very productive because we quickly get through our ideas, and then move on. - [Claudia] It's true. - But let me try doing it expressionlessly. ♪ Sing me the words I long to hear ♪ Out of Violetta ♪ In an operetta ♪ She will fast be outcast from her castle ♪ With nary a friend ♪ But since she's a princess ♪ There's hints of a prince in the end ♪ It'll be fine expressionless, I think. I just have to not go prrrince in the end or something. - I just think that if you sing it, yeah. ♪ Sing me the kind of song you hear ♪ In an operetta ♪ Within an operetta "All art aspires to the condition of Top 40 bubblegum pop. "Sample formula: a song based on a slow, "unchanging repetition of first and fourth chords "will express a calm, wandering quality "with eternally unrealized expectations, "which combines well with the text suggesting "analogous emotions. "Anyone with a very basic music education "can use this formula to write any number of songs "with an outcome known beforehand. "Formulism is the artist as smart shopper. "Cliche is dead, long live cliche. "We, the formulists, with a sigh of relief, renounce the deluded striving of moderns "for self-expression through novelty." Go figure that one. (upbeat pop music) - I come up with most of my song ideas while sitting in dark gay bars, listening to thumping disco music. It's me sitting with a cocktail and a cigarette in my hand, writing about being someone with a cocktail and cigarette in his hand. This is not something I do for an hour. It's something I do for eight hours. Since I'm listening to thumping disco music that I don't particularly like, a lot of times, the original idea will be "ooh-uh, ooh-uh," or some similar thing. I'm always wondering what song I would really write if it contained "ooh-uh, ooh-uh." But I've never actually succeeded in writing a song with that. I have difficulty writing to hip hop because, technically, a little too boring. - I also haven't recorded any heavy metal songs. Well, I haven't released any heavy metal songs. I have one called Scream Till You Make the Scene. (upbeat pop music) - He writes thousands of songs at bars, you know, across America, and I think there's a quality of that machine that the real building was, or Tin Pan Alley, where it was like, you know, "Kid, you gotta produce more songs!" And he just does that to himself, like, you know? I think there's a part of his personality that's like, "Produce more songs! "We gotta get the new hit!" - Stephin's been influenced by a lot of different things. I think '80s pop, '70s bubblegum, '20s and '30s show composers, and by a lot of, sort of, unusual figures throughout musical history. - In the '70s, cinema verite influenced movies, the reason, it was very ugly-looking, 'cause it was supposed to look real, which meant that it looked like no one had set it up. It looked so ugly that no one would do that deliberately, but, of course, they did it just as deliberately as beautiful, glamorous movies. So, it was fake verite. Filmmakers decided that self-expression is gritty, ugliness, showing the world as horrible as it really is, rather than as glamorous as Marlene Dietrich can be, or as stylish as Rock Hudson and Doris Day movies can be. That's how I feel about other people's records. I think they're emphasizing convention over beauty or interest, and I'm usually emphasizing interest and beauty over convention. ♪ The light reflecting off the mirror ball ♪ Looks like a thousand swirling eyes ♪ Swirling eyes ♪ They make me think I shouldn't be here at all ♪ You know ♪ Every minute ♪ Someone dies ♪ What are we doing in this dive bar ♪ How can you live in a place ♪ Like this ♪ Why don't you just get into my car ♪ And I'll take you away ♪ I'll take that kiss now ♪ But Papa was a rodeo ♪ Mama was a rock 'n' roll band ♪ I could play guitar and rope a steer ♪ Before I learned to stand ♪ Home was anywhere with diesel gas ♪ Love was a trucker's hand ♪ Never stuck around long enough ♪ For a one night ♪ Stand ♪ Before you kiss me, you should know ♪ Papa was a rodeo ♪ And now it's 55 years later ♪ We've had the romance ♪ Of the century ♪ After all these years wrestling gators ♪ I still feel like crying ♪ When I think of what you said ♪ To me ♪ Papa was a rodeo ♪ Mama was a rock 'n' roll band ♪ I could play guitar and rope a steer ♪ Before I learned to stand ♪ Home was anywhere with diesel gas ♪ Love was a trucker's hand ♪ Never stuck around long enough ♪ For a one night ♪ Stand ♪ Before you kiss me, you should know ♪ Papa was a rodeo ♪ Ooh ♪ What a coincidence ♪ Your Papa ♪ Was a rodeo ♪ Too (audience cheering and applauding) (hopeful music) - [Voiceover] There's now a renewed sense of pride and patriotism in our country. There's a new frontier out there, and the United States is going to be very much a part of that future. I, Ronald Reagan, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of president of the United States. - So help you, God. - So help me, God. - May I congratulate you, sir? (audience applauding) (horns honking) - I don't know, I feel bad for anybody who wasn't raised in the '80s. It was incredibly terrifying and incredibly depressing and incredibly fun. I was looking through stuff from the past and I found, like, little slips of paper that Stephin would write things on. Everyone is so much like, 'cause we were in high school, it was all like (speaking French). You know, like, all this, like, you know, and a picture of, like, a dying, like, goth, or, like, there was a lot of goth. And there was, like, what else did I find? Somewhere, I found a little slip of paper that said on it, "Every day, in every way, I'm getting worse and worse." (laughing) - When I was 23, my mother and I counted how many places we'd lived up to then, and it was 33, mostly suburban, mostly around a lot of hippies, not hardcore hippies. I don't think we ever went for more than a month without electricity. - He was subjected to a lot of spiritual healing kind of stuff, when, you know, you really did need to go to the doctor and get some antibiotics. - I remember someone showing my mother how to fix the leaky radiator by rubbing a green banana on the radiator. - Yeah. I still haven't met my father. I really feel like if I do it, I should do it on Oprah. I had his two early albums from the time I was, maybe, 20, when I first discovered them in used record stores, which was kind of a shock 'cause he looks so much like me on the covers of the albums. ♪ Morning come down ♪ Very heavy on me It's island-influenced pop rock, and I guess I'm somewhat folk-influenced, but not at all island-influenced. (energetic electronic music) - This is the fabled area known as The Wall. Notice there's a wall here. It's the backside of the subway. When I first met Stephin, we would sit on this wall with many punk rockers of varying types of mohawk length. For our entire summer vacation, 1983, that's what we did, sat on that wall. You know, all these kids, their names were like Toby Skinhead and Phlegm, and they all had tattoos on their heads. Sometimes, the phone would ring, it'd be like, "Hi, Claudia, it's your mother. "Simon and Garfunkel are playing at the Foxwood Stadium "and I have an extra ticket. "Do you guys wanna come? "Okay, I'll pick you up in the square. "Okay, bye." Complete freedom, total vagrancy. It was awesome. (energetic electronic music) (audience applauding) - [Claudia] No, no, no, no. - No, no? - [Claudia] No! (audience chattering) (audience laughing and cheering) You know, this isn't really appropriate. (audience laughing) ♪ Abigail (audience laughing) ♪ Can you feel my heart in the palm of your hand ♪ And do you understand ♪ Don't, don't be alone ♪ Abigail, belle of Kilronan (audience cheering and applauding) - The first show was just Claudia and Johnny Blood, who plays tuba. Stephin refused to participate. - [Voiceover] I'm getting an incredible shock. I mean, I'm getting an incredible shock. I still... (lively music) (bright electronic music) - Stephin basically was sort of sitting there in his home recording studio and, like, all of these, you know, a lot of synths and weird percussion, and just kind of making these really unique-sounding, kinda strange records. And then, I guess because I was more interested in being in a band live than Stephin was, and Stephin had pretty much no interest in being a band live, we would just make a completely different live band. So, we were almost, like, schizophrenic between this live sound and this recorded sound. - The first shows were rocky, around 1991 or 1992. We made absolutely no money, of course, and we were always on a bill that was completely inappropriate for us, playing to a handful of people in the audience. - We sort of fit in that environment, but I definitely did not fit 'cause I was playing a cello. And, usually, the sound guy would just turn me down, but I suspect off. Musically, it was a disastrous environment 'cause I wasn't really able to play the cello. I was just trying to survive. - More cello! More cello! (audience cheering and applauding) - I sort of thought we were supposed to be a rock band, so I kinda wanted to play some of the louder songs. And I think, already at that point, Stephin was not satisfied with that, and was sort of heading in different direction. When we were in these clubs, I just felt like one way to entertain people was to give 'em what they wanted, which I think was kind of a more powerful pop or rock experience, like bass and drums. And Stephin may have been thinking of something else at that point already. - The first Magnetic Fields album doesn't have any guitars on it. It's not remotely a rock record and it confused people when it came out because it wasn't a rock record. It was referred to as art pop because it didn't have guitars. ♪ That when they cut it off, grew back ♪ - I remember a show that we did in Columbus, Ohio. It was this heavy metal club, basically, and when I called, it was this very caffeinated voice announcing the concerts comin' up, and we were playing the day after Armored Saint! So, on Thursday night, Armored Saint, and on Friday, The Magnetic Fields! (audience cheering) (heavy rock music) - There was that whole Nirvana excitement. I remember hearing that record so many times. When we'd pull up to a club, people would be listening to it while they were sweeping up the beer bottles and cigarette butts from the night before. And yeah, into that comes The Magnetic Fields. ♪ I have a mandolin ♪ I play it all night long ♪ It makes me want to kill myself ♪ I also have a dobro ♪ Made in some mountain range ♪ Sounds like a mountain range in love ♪ But when I turn up the tone ♪ On my electric guitar ♪ I'm ♪ Afraid of the dark without you close to me ♪ I went out When I heard Distant Plastic Trees, thinking, like, this is like an electronic band. This is all computer-generated. And I remember explaining to someone how great Charm of the Highway Strip was, but this guy mostly did computer music. - I think some of our best shows during that period were when some of that feeling maybe came into the show. Like, people saying, "Wow, this is a terrible club, "but this feels like something sort of "momentous is happening." That may be overstating it. Maybe people were just drunk, but, surely, from my point of view, I feel like there were a couple shows in that beat up Volvo, driving around period, when we were bigger than the room. ♪ Some roads ♪ Are only seen at night ♪ Ghost roads ♪ Nothing but neon signs ♪ But some nights ♪ The neon gas gets free ♪ And turns into walking dead ♪ Like me ♪ Well, I've been makin' promises ♪ I know I'll never keep ♪ One of these days ♪ I'm gonna leave you in your sleep ♪ I'll have to go when the whistle blows ♪ The whistle knows my name ♪ Baby, I was born on a train (audience cheering and applauding) - [Voiceover] Thank you, good night. ♪ Eligible, not too stupid - There was a time I would have really characterized The Magnetic Fields fantasy, 15-year old, straight girl or gay boy. I cannot tell you the number of fan letters that I've gotten that are just like, "You really helped me get through "my break up." "You really helped me get through my parents' divorce, "or whatever." And now, I think it's, you know, a little more erudite and a little more theater crowd-y, and, you know, people who read The New York Times, or whatever. - Was it the songwriters series on Public Television, PBS? And they asked him to come in and write a song and he had two days to do it. - Yeah. - He's just got such an economy of words with his lyrics. It's just really neat to imagine him sitting there, writing those things. - I can remember listening to The Magnetic Fields, uh, as long as I can remember music. (audience chattering) - When I picture a typical Magnetic Fields fan as kind of young, heartbroken, liberal arts school graduate, (laughing) who, if they're not from Manhattan or Brooklyn, they kind of look like they're from Manhattan or Brooklyn, the hipster vintage styling. That's what I think of. - Most of the time, if a fan walks up to me and wants to talk to me, I'll talk to them for a while, and then I have work to go back to doing. In the worst case scenario, I can say, "I'm sorry, I have to pee, I really have to pee. "Come to Beauty Bar on Mondays." (coughing) That always works. So, I went record shopping yesterday, and I got Buzz Buzzbo's The Higher Art of the Groovy '60s Psychedelic Instrumental. - [Man in Green Cap] Oh, beautiful. - I got Girls in the Garage, Oriental Special. And this extremely racist collection of songs about the Orient, Chop Suey Rock. (man in green cap groans) Best of Olivia Newton-John. I don't think I've heard her version of Me and Bobby McGee. That's audacious of her. Do you have the Ethel Merman Disco Album? Andy Williams, John Williams, here's WIlly Wonka. Mary Poppins, Miko, Star Wars Theme. I like Doris Day, Ella Fitzgerald, ABBA, all for the same reason, 'cause they wrote incredibly simple songs with extremely well-worked arrangements, giving almost every song an iconic quality. You couldn't believe that it hadn't been thought of before. That's what I wanna do. ♪ You shook me all night long (clattering) ♪ I spend my evenings alone ♪ Talking to your picture, babe ♪ Love is wrapped around my heart ♪ Like a boa constrictor, babe "It was raining broken glass in the forgotten part of town." Fantastic! "I may find you on my mind, "but the dead love you all the time. "You are my nothing." ♪ My mother should have murdered me ♪ What jury would convict her, babe ♪ For love is wrapped around my heart ♪ Like a boa constrictor, babe "The clocks were singing horrible songs, "doctors clinging to horrible tongs." (laughs) - Hungry, I didn't have any money. I ate bagels, buttered bagels. - At first, nothing, and then, I worked at Spin doing proofreading. - I met Stephin in 1994. I hired him to do some copy editing at Spin Magazine during the grunge era. I started working at Time Out New York as a general editor, and I brought Stephin over there to copy edit and proofread. - We ended up getting a lot more than just a proofreader out of him. He had incredible knowledge, and he was very indignant when he found mistakes. (romantic music) One night, I remember, he wrote the most withering margin note I've ever seen on a piece of copy. It was a particularly infelicitous sentence. He wrote a line out to the margin, and then he wrote, "Dot, dot, dot, thud, period." And gave it back to the editor. - On the very first issue, it was all night New York, 24 hour New York. He was out with his laptop computer, writing articles, going to the Blue Note, or places like that, and writing articles, and he just became sort of an all-around writer at Time Out New York. He wrote record reviews. (bright music) (typewriter clicking) - Someone actually recently tried to commission Stephin to write a song for their wedding. The lyrics were something like, "You'll never have sex with anyone else, "except Brad Pitt." And then, like, the whole thing was kind of about, like, having a threesome with Brad Pitt. I don't think they used it. (laughs) ♪ You won't be coming home again ♪ - The way I'd always known recording was we would get together in Stephin's minuscule studio and he would sit on the floor, or by the mixing console, and kind of produce the record. - [Voiceover] It was crammed floor to ceiling with stuff. I remember a lot of hula girl paraphernalia, oh, and just machines covering all of the walls, like DAT recorders, and all sorts of random weird instruments and vintage electronics. You could barely move in it. - There's been some really defeating moments where, like, I've sat around with major A and R people who've been like, "I don't know what your goal is, "but Stephin Merritt is not gonna be like Britney Spears, "so where are you goin' with it?" They've been very, like, kinda negative, and very, like, you know, I'm like, "I just think he could write a hit," or whatever. - 69 Love Songs was a little bit different. I remember the first few conversations about it, and Stephin might have said, "Hey, I'm thinking about writing this record, "and we're gonna have the band do it, "and it's gonna be 100 songs, or something like that. "And how many CDs will that be, do you think? "And what's the jewel case gonna look like?" I think that might have been 1996 or 1997. ♪ You ♪ You can read me anything I think the record probably took, in total, about a year to make. In a way, I thought, well, it's just a Magnetic Fields record, but it's several times larger, but it would up being something that was actually pretty different. We had these guest vocalists on, and these other players in the band. I think maybe it was a challenge to try to sustain anyone's interest through 69 songs. And I remember going into his apartment, and there was this huge poster paper. It was kind of tucked up somewhere, maybe near his bed, or by the recording mixer. And there was just a list of songs with several columns and lots of little cross outs, and that sort of thing. And I think, probably, everything on the record was there. You know, we usually put stuff out and just kind of hope for the best. The record came out and the first couple of reviews came back and it was a shock. It was pretty different, yeah. ♪ The cactus where your heart should be ♪ Has lovely little flowers ♪ So, though it's always ♪ Pricking me ♪ My ardor ♪ Never sours - [Sam] To watch it debut at The Knitting Factory, which felt like that was the final triumph, you know, that we played it at The Knitting Factory, oh my God! Everyone heard it! Like, the end! And then, to watch it happen in London, in Alice Pawley Hall, and then, even now, to have it be this classic. ♪ Andy would bicycle across town ♪ In the rain to bring you candy ♪ And John would buy the gown ♪ For you to wear to the prom ♪ With Tom, the - All of a sudden, it's like The New York Times is writing articles, and all of a sudden, all of our parents start to be like, "What?" You know, it was just this kind of moment, and everything flips, and, you know. - And Stephin had some quote, at that point, about why we were being nice to him, remember? "They're being nice to me "because we finally are successful," or something like that. - [Claudia] Probably. - [Dorothy] Remember? He said, you know. - Yeah, probably. I mean, there was definitely a moment of, like, oh, I don't need to convince my family anymore that I'm, you know, that I'm not a thing, like, I have a thing now. (upbeat music) (audience cheering and applauding) - The 2:25 showing of The Killer is Loose, followed by 3:50, A Crime Wave. - House of Bamboo, good conquers evil on a ferris wheel high atop a Tokyo fairground. Yeah. It's been three weeks since I quit smoking, which is where the lozenges come in. - I don't think it's a good idea for me to be in a room with a lot of needles. I might... I might go wild. I had a bad experience with an acupuncturist in my youth. He attacked me, so, I feel that, left alone with an acupuncturist, I might retaliate, given my mood. (feedback ringing) (strumming guitar) Well, it's gonna be guitar-heavy and have lots of feedback and distortion. Like... (mimicking static) Continuously. (muffled rock music) (feedback screeching) Nice, very shrieky. (feedback screeching) (muffled rock music) (tapping piano keys) - Ah, sorry. (E key knocking on piano) The E has permanently gone defective. (taps piano key) Oh, there it is. - Stephin called me and said, "Do you have Jesus and Mary Chain's album?" I thought he was asking to borrow a Jesus and Mary Chain album, which didn't make any sense. And, finally, I understood that he was asking me to listen to the album, which still didn't make complete sense to me. And then we had a discussion about it, and he said that, um, we were gonna do something a little different this time. - For this record, I've been writing a lot of the songs from imaginary female points of view, maybe a chubby Midwestern woman who is tired of having images of blonde bimbos in bathing suits projected onto her (mumbling) So, she wants to kill them all, which seems to be inappropriate... way of venting her anger, but at the end, she does. She's made plans to go to California and assault people. She's bought a battle ax. (strumming guitar) (feedback ringing) - That was (mumbles). - [Stephin] Play loudly! - [Stephin] Generating feedback. You must only play loudly. - [John] Okay. - Loud! - [John] All right, got it. - [John] Santana! Zero subtlety. - [John] You don't want any sliding? - You're stomping. You're ACDC. (humming and stomping) - [John] Okay, all right, none of the. (strumming guitar) You want inflection or-- - No inflection! - [John] All right. (strumming guitar) - Just, like, wiggle your fingers and make them little vibrato things happen. That will be very expressive. - [John] Okay. - Just play as loudly as you possibly can. - [John] All right. - That's why you're playing with a quarter, so you can play really hard. - I can't hear you, I'm going deaf. - What? (laughs) (Claudia laughs) - [Claudia] Okay, I think I know it now. - The third or fourth time you went (mimicking piano notes). Other than that, it seemed fine. (laughing) One, two, three. (scatting) Why are you being staccato? You're so staccato today. (laughs) You're playing an octave too low. Can't you read music? - No, 'cause in this, it would be here. This is the G clef. - [Stephin] You're playing-- - [Claudia] Oh, you're right. - [Stephin] You're playing (mumbling). - Oh, in which case, I did the entire last song in the wrong octave, but I did it on purpose because if I had gone up here, I would have gone off the keyboard. (Claudia playing piano keys) - Can you play it at tempo? (Claudia tapping piano keys) ♪ Duh, duh, duh (Claudia playing piano) - So, it's like (scatting). - Okay. - [Both] Three-way! - [Charles] Cool. - [All] Three-way! - [All] Three-way! - [All] Three-way! - Yeah, right on. ("Three-Way" by The Magnetic Fields) ♪ Three-way (chattering) I hope there's, like, some sizes that will be representative of different sizes of people. - [Voiceover] Are there none of the skin tones? - Uh, I don't think there are. What a fuckin' drag. There should be a box, where are they? - Oh, wait, I think there's some in the bottom of-- - [Claudia] Yeah, 'cause I ordered some more. - [Blonde Woman] Yeah, no, here they are. - [Claudia] And the phone's ringing. Hello, Stephin. We have all the other records in stock, so that's the lesser of the nervous things to not have. See you at Carnegie Hall at 3:30. Bye. This woman wrote a, like, parody of the song, How Fucking Romantic, as a plea to get me to give her tickets, and I should really find it because it would be sweet for me to e-mail her and be like, "Hey, you know." Oh my God. I found it. "Dear Magnetic Fields, "How fucking romantic, here's a fine cliche. "You are playing Carnegie, it's my girlfriend's birthday. "Love you, obviously, like you really care, "and your show is sold out, "not sold out like Liz Phair." That's kind of lame. "Toss your bear a goldfish, my girlfriend is a Jew. "When I called Carnegie, they said to contact you." I wrote her back a response that came out really badly. But anyway, it's something like, "Not if I was paralytic. (laughs) "Did you think that line about your girlfriend "was a tad anti-Semitic?" But... (laughs) - It was kind of funny. When I started going out with Claudia, I'm sorry, started going out with Stephin, it was like I was going out with Claudia, you know? It was one of those things where you hang out with Stephin, she's the family, she's part of the package. She's allowed him the space to write the music and make the music. I think that's one of the reasons that her and Stephin's relationship has lasted as long as it has. ♪ I guess folks just don't like my face ♪ - For 15 years, or something, I sat there being like, "What am I, what am I, what am I? "I need to be something, I'm nothing. "I'm just this nothing, I'm nothing!" (laughs) You know, then, all of a sudden, it was like, wait a minute, I've been doing the same thing since I was 18 years old, which is managing The Magnetic Fields. - She's done this remarkable job of being kind of a business person, but also keeping it a cottage industry, not turning anybody into a huge rock star, and kind of keeping what's delicate and holy about The Magnetic Fields delicate and holy. ♪ And as I floated up ♪ I looked straight down ♪ And I looked all over town ♪ One last time ♪ I looked all over town - [Stephin] More bouzouki, more bouzouki everywhere. (strumming guitar) I love smoking in gas stations. It's the danger. It's also a favorite way of annoying Germans. - [Claudia] Yeah. - I don't believe you. You didn't read any, did you? - [Claudia] I did. - You never read anything. - There were really nice pictures. - [Stephin] You don't even read lyric sheets. You don't even read credits. - It's true, I don't read lyric sheets, I don't read credits, and I have a really hard time reading computer manuals. My life is spent calling Stephin. It's like, "I don't understand how to use this." And he was like, "Read the manual!" And I was like, "I can't read the manual! "You have to tell me how to do it." - Well, I'm interested in your wish to be an English teacher coupled with your resistance to actually reading anything. - [Claudia] No, I do read. Don't be unkind. - I'm not being unkind. - [Claudia] I do read. It's an anxiety of mine that I don't read enough, but I do read. - [Stephin] And I read 20 times more than you. - [Claudia] Okay, you only see me on tour, and you do read 20 times more than me on tour. - [Stephin] A conversation with you because you think I'm attacking you. - You were attacking me. - [Stephin] At the beginning of it, and I was actually not attacking you at all. - You were attacking me. ♪ Are you out of love with me ♪ Are you longing to be free ♪ Do I drive you up a tree ♪ Yeah ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ Do I drive you up the wall ♪ Do you dread every phone call ♪ Can you not stand me at all ♪ Yeah ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ I've enjoyed making you miserable ♪ For years (audience laughing) ♪ Found peace of mind in playing on your fears ♪ How I loved to catch your gold and silver tears ♪ But now, my dear ♪ What a dark and dreary life ♪ Are you reaching for a knife ♪ Would you really kill your wife ♪ Yeah ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ Oh, I die, I die, I die ♪ So, it's over, you and I ♪ Was my whole life just a lie ♪ Yeah ♪ Oh, yeah (audience cheering and applauding) (upbeat electronic music) - As a band, we're together on tour, and then we disperse. And in some ways, it's not even about Stephin. I mean, I love Stephin and I wouldn't (mumbling), but I'm not friends with Stephin. But I am very intimate with his music. It's a strange intimacy that I like, sort of, right where it is. Like, I don't think it would work if we were friends. And some of the train wrecks that you might see in other bands probably have been avoided because of that. There is, sometimes, a tension because we have to follow along, John and I, in playing our roles, when Stephin says something that I may not agree with, for example, or becomes a little bit too irreverent, or more irreverent than I would be towards the audience. - You know, I would set up interviews and people knew by reputation that Stephin was a quote, unquote, difficult interview, or whatever. And writers would be calling me, asking me, you know, "What do I do," and all this stuff. And I'm like... Stephin's just the type of person that doesn't suffer fools lightly. And he's not about the small talk. - When Stephin did that appearance on Good Morning Atlanta, (laughs) he was doing it. They wanted me to do it, and... I knew I was gonna be up late that night, and so I said I can't get up at 5:00 in the morning and be on TV, so, I asked Stephin if he would do it. And then, I remember, the night before, we had dinner, and it was getting kinda late, and I said, you know, "Maybe we should finish dinner "so you can go to bed." And he said, "No, I'm just gonna stay up "until it's time to do that." And I thought that doesn't really seem like a good idea. - [Voiceover] Good Day Atlanta. - To coincide with the release of the last book in the Lemony Snicket series, The Gothic Archies have released a CD compilation containing music from all 13 audio books. Here to tell us about it is Stephin Merritt from The Gothic Archies. Stephin, good morning. What a pleasure to have you here! - Good morning. - Yeah, thanks so much for stopping by. Well, first of all, tell me, how did you get involved with writing the music for the Lemony Snicket series? - Mr. Snicket played the accordion on my album, 69 Love Songs. And then, I asked him if he was going to have music for his audio books, and he said, "Yes, of course. "You're going to have to do it." - [Host] (laughs) You're gonna have to do it, huh? - Yeah. - That was his way of asking? Well, tell me a little bit about writing such dark-themed songs, because, you know, it's an unfortunate saga, as it might be called. - I'm a pretty dark person, really. - Is that right? I would have never guessed that. - No, no. - (laughing) Okay. And the kids absolutely adore it. I'm sure they're gonna love the music as well. - They better. - They better, or else. - Exactly. - Something dark could happen to them. - Something dark will happen to them anyway. - (laughs) All right. Hey, thanks so much for stopping by. - There's not a whole lotta off the cuff. So, when I would talk to him, you know, havin' a conversation with Stephin... And then there's always that inevitable pause while he collects his thoughts, or whatever, of what he's going to say. It may only be a split second, or whatever, but it's tangible, and you're like, "Did I just say something completely retarded?" - After I saw him live, I was still scared of him. I feel that way today. He's intimidating. He's very talented and he... just always seems superior to everyone else. - I remember one time, he was bashed, fag-bashed, walking home, when we were living together. So, he decided to dye his hair green because he figured it would be more of a punk rock statement, and people might not necessarily think of him as gay, but more of just punk rock, so they would leave him alone. And tended to work, but that's kind of the way his mind worked. ♪ Lovers every day ♪ 1,000 lovers in a day - At the end of the 20th century, Stephin wrote a list of his favorite 100 songs of the 20th century, one for each year, for Time Out New York. Sasha Frere-Jones, who's now the critic for the New Yorker Magazine, analyzed the list and decided that there weren't enough black artists on the list. ♪ 1,000 lovers in a day ♪ 1,000 lovers every day ("The Things We Did and Didn't Do" by The Magnetic Fields) (speaker drowned out by music) ♪ All the things I knew I didn't know ♪ And didn't want to know ♪ That you told me just to tell me later ♪ That you'd told me - There's always the question of, like, what is the attitude towards the genre of being Asian? Is it conempt or is it-- - It's much more fun to depict sincerity than to do sincerity. You take a maudlin love song, and you're supposed to know it's maudlin, and you're not supposed to identify fully with it. You're supposed to be a bit (mumbling) with yourself. Do it and talk about it at the same time. - [Ann] Right. - Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah? - [LD] Yeah. - [Stephin] Yeah, yeah. That, uh... (laughing) Happy songs, happy songs are hard to come by if they're good ones. - It was a pretty informal discussion, and at one point, we mentioned pride and the concept of pride, and music that expresses pride. Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah emerges, and then we just continue to meander on. I think I looked online for what are people saying about the POP Conference, and I saw that, somehow, the whole thing had been spun as this weird racist outburst from Stephin Merritt, and it just struck me as, like, factually, way wrong. Like, nobody ever said that they loved Song of the South or that it was a great film. - There was another journalist, Jessica Hopper, she went ballistic about his mention of this song because it's from Song of the South, which is a racist film. ♪ You are a splendid butterfly ♪ It is your wings that make you beautiful ♪ And I could make you fly away ♪ But I could never make you stay ♪ Not for all the tea in China ♪ Not if I could sing like a bird ♪ Not for all North Carolina ♪ Not for all my little words - What is the issue at hand here? Is it about if you don't have X percentage of black artists on your iPod, you are a racist? Is it about white guilt? Is it about... Is it about whether or not taste in music reflects ideologies about race? You know, let's really hone down on, like, who's talking and who's listening. I mean, the moment, yesterday, where I realized that not a single person in the entire dialogue was of color was really just, like, you know. - The idea that, say, Stephin, doesn't like rap, my mother doesn't like rap. Does that make her less black? You know, my mother would probably be more inclined to listen to Stephin's music than, say, 50 Cent, you know? (laughs) And it's just where you come from, and the idea that what's on your iPod is what's in your heart is disgusting. - I was wrong about everything. I didn't deliver a letter, I just threw a rock through someone's window. You can't really ever, that's the end of a discussion, not the beginning of one, so. I'm kind of looking back on it like, "Ooh!" If I could turn back the projector, we could start again. I wish I'd done this differently. I don't have any real defense to my position. - [Voiceover] It's a wonderful day, isn't it, Stephin Merritt? - [Stephin] With butter! - [Voiceover] I'm with my special guest DJ, Stephin Merritt, today, and we're celebrating a very wonderful song. - [Stephin] Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah, widely covered by all sorts of people. - [Voiceover] We just heard a few of 'em, by the way, and-- - [Stephin] Which ones did we hear? I know we started with Doris. - [Voiceover] Doris Day, your favorite singer, right? - [Stephin] Oui. - [Voiceover] And The Jackson 5. We have some more Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah comin' your way. (upbeat electronic music) - Well... The rocker will go to L.A. - [Voiceover] The green chair? - [Stephin] The tiki bar stools and tiki bar will go to L.A. The three gongs and the ocean drum. (clanging) - [Voiceover] 'Cause it is impossible to open this box. - [Voiceover] Behind you. - If I wanna get soundtrack work on movies in Hollywood, then I need to be there. Not being in the film world is sort of like being mute, in a way. I feel like I'm not involved in the conversation. And, of course, nobody listens to the music in movies. But... They are, at least, paying attention to the overall product. I've had him for more time than any other of my possessions. He was knitted for me by my great-grandmother before she went blind and deaf, and started whacking out at everyone with a cane. (mumbling) - There was a kind of intensity in New York, and, actually, I have a lot of questions now about what's gonna happen because we're, sort of all, we're dispersing a bit more. I don't know how it'll work, going forward. - Early on, I don't think many of us had aspirations to be in a rock band, per se. I think we thought about this idea, or Claudia did, rather, of playing Stephin's music, and getting some people together to do it. And, somehow, we were able to maintain this sort of low-level haste for many, many, many years. We've sustained it. - The venerable Dick's Bar logo! Dick's Bar, where half of 69 Love Songs was written. - Suddenly, all these memories and all these things that I, like, used to play when I was In high school. It's almost like if you were married and you put your clothing and your stuff together, and all of a sudden, you're like, you know. I think there's an understanding that if he changes his life in such a way that I'm no longer relevant to the mix then that he would find somebody new. That would really take a huge chunk out of my identity in a way that it would probably leave me feeling very... confused and, like, hmm? Mid-life crisis! (laughs) - Flashing! I depend on Claudia for an enormous number of functions. I don't know how to do anything except play the harp, or whatever. What I feel about Claudia changes from moment to moment. And as an only child, I, of course, resent the existence of all other people, including Claudia. But, as other people go, she's okay. - There's the music that he just sent me for my piano lines for some songs that we haven't recorded yet. It'll be interesting because we're gonna have to start working via the mail. One of the things that keeps Stephin and me so close is the band and I kind of can't see, right now, what the future holds, so I'm kind of trying to be very, um... just, you know, in the moment, and not getting too worried about it. - This is a gay bar. - [Voiceover] This is? - Yeah, you can see that it's not open because it's indoor-outdoor and there's nobody outside. I've never been there. This, I think, is a gay bar, 1969? But I've actually never seen that one open. What time is the opera, and when do you want to meet? You've already had your audition, right? Oh, how did it go? Oh, good. This was with the network? Look, we got a package. (dog barks) Oh, really? No, not the right idea. Go in, come on. Or behind the harp, or something. - Well, I'm sure it won't be real for very long 'cause I haven't finished unpacking the instruments yet. And here's the studio. Here's the vibraphone, but I can't find the rod that connects to the sustain pedal, so it's just a little ding, ding kind of sound. But soon, I'll find the rod, and it will be a vibraphone again. - Yes, it's so impossibly glamorous I can barely stand it. No, I haven't found anywhere to write songs yet. People's patterns of alcoholism are different here. Everyone wakes up early. You'd think they'd wanna start drinking immediately. But, instead, they wanna go to the beach, or something. - Stephin always was who he was on his own little journey. When he was, like, 1-1/2, he'd just be at my feet, doing his artistic work, whatever that happened to be at the time. - Toe painting. - Toe painting. (laughs) - [Voiceover] What was he like instead? - In high school? (Stephin sighs deeply) - [Voiceover] What was his fashion like? (Stephin groans) - Ah, fashion! In 9th grade, we went to London. He really liked all things British. - [Stephin] Oh my God! (laughing) What have I done? (laughing) (chattering) - [Voiceover] It's like a dream come true! - All right, bye, have fun getting shit done. - [Voiceover] What are you wearing? - We're both wearing this, yeah. (chattering) ♪ A vodka bottle - [Claudia] Do we start there? - Two, three. ♪ A vodka bottle ♪ Gave you those raccoon eyes ♪ We got beat up ♪ Just for holding hands ♪ Take ♪ Ecstasy ♪ With me (Claudia mumbling) (chattering drowned out by music) ♪ Ecstasy (audience applauding) I remember, when Stephin was young, he once played Sonny in one room, solo record, and Cher, solo record, in the other room in an effort to get them back together. (audience laughing) Do you remember that? It was like the sweetest and most cacophonous thing I've ever heard in my life. (audience laughing) - I don't know why cacophonous. All those songs are in D or G. - It's true, yeah. If you play them long enough, they just, you know. - Yeah, yeah. - Louder? Okay. - [Claudia] They want me to be louder, it's a miracle. (audience laughing) - I've always wanted you to be louder, Claudia. - [Audience Member] Aw. - [Claudia] I don't even know what to say to that. (audience laughing) I kinda wanted to say something like, "I've always wanted you to be gayer, Stephin," but that just didn't come out right. (audience laughing) - Finally! (audience laughing) Hooray! (audience laughing) Now I can be me! (audience laughing) - [Claudia] Oh... ♪ I want to be ♪ A topless waitress ♪ I want my mother to shed one tear ♪ One tear ♪ I'd throw away ♪ This old sedate dress ♪ Slip into something a tad more sheer ♪ I want to be an artist's model ♪ Oh ♪ An odalisque au naturel ♪ I should be good ♪ At spin the bottle ♪ While I've still got something left to sell ♪ I want to I guess I'd say, for me, it's not optimal that we're not in the same town, but it's also necessary, because I think he really needed to go and to be in a new place with a new life. And I think he's so happy there that even though it's not optimal for me, it's still what I would prefer because he's... because he's happier there. ♪ I've always been treated like one ♪ - I like the music that I make, but I'm not recognized on the street, and I don't particularly wanna be recognized on the street. And, you know, once a week or two, somebody walks up and says, "Hey, 69." And I say, "No, thank you," and go on. (audience applauding) - Yeah, I'm waiting for the right person to say, "Oh, 69?" And I'll say, "Sure." Are you ready to roll? - [John] Yeah, we're ready. - [Claudia] As they say, as ready as we'll ever be. (chattering) ♪ What if no show ever happened ♪ Again ♪ No seven, no 8-1/2, no nine ♪ And no 10 ♪ All numbers and no mystery ♪ No promise of eternity ♪ I can't let this happen to you ♪ Don't you let it happen to me ♪ What would our friends and family say ♪ If they could only see ♪ If you let this happen to us ♪ Don't think you'd be setting me free ♪ Wasn't it you and I who made ♪ Promises of eternity ♪ I can't let this happen to you ♪ Don't you let it happen to me ♪ Wasn't it you and I who made ♪ Promises of eternity (audience cheering and applauding) ♪ On the ferris wheel ♪ Looking out on Coney Island ♪ Under more stars than ♪ There are prostitutes in Thailand ♪ Our hair in the air ♪ Our lips blue from cotton candy ♪ When we kiss, it feels ♪ Like a flying saucer landing ♪ And I can't sleep ♪ 'Cause you got strange powers ♪ You're in my dreams ♪ Strange powers ♪ In Las Vegas, where ♪ The electric bills are staggering ♪ The decor, hog wild ♪ And the entertainment, saccharin ♪ What a golden age ♪ What a time of right and reason ♪ The consumers, king ♪ And unhappiness is treason ♪ And I can't sleep ♪ 'Cause you got strange powers ♪ You're in my dreams ♪ Strange powers ♪ The sun pours down like money ♪ The moon pours down like mercury ♪ The stars fall down like money ♪ You come down to me ♪ And I can't sleep ♪ 'Cause you got strange powers ♪ You're in my dreams ♪ Strange powers ♪ And I can't sleep ♪ 'Cause you got strange powers ♪ You're in my dreams ♪ Strange powers