Transcript for Warsaw: A City Divided (2019) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (the sound of a moving streetcar) (peaceful music) There's nothing here to remind me of my birthplace. There was once a beautiful square. Muranowski Square. I remember trees, and benches. I was born in Warsaw, into a traditional Jewish family. I went to a pre-school for Jewish children, where they taught Polish. At home we spoke Yiddish, but I had no problem with Polish, as we spoke that too. My parents and grandparents lived in Warsaw. We lived at 91 Zelazna Street. By the gate was a tiny shop, owned by a Jew, our neighbor. He used to impress us kids by pretending to stitch his fingers together with a needle. We'd be horrified. He had a daughter Lonia, who was a friend of my sister, and we lived just like normal neighbors. My mother was from Warsaw. Her family had lived there for hundreds of years. Nowolipie - that was my street. I often see it more clearly than the Warsaw around me today. It's still the same in my mind. In the morning, warm pretzels would be delivered - they were called bagels. You won't find bagels like those today. You could take one and untwist it. My parents lived at 49 Marszalkowska St. It was a so-called good neighborhood. My nanny would take me to the Church of the Holiest Savior. I remember we had to recite prayers. Some children would say they didn't know the prayers. And I would say I did, because my nanny taught me. It was in the Jordan Garden on Bagatela St. That the War began for me. I was sitting in a sand box, and my mum came over. There was a war on, she said, and what were we going to do now? (minimal music) It’s the special quality of the Nazi system. People who had the energy to develop something, had the power to do it. (minimal music) When Mr. Dengel took over in Warsaw, in early December ‘39 he had the idea to invite Hubert Gross to come to Warsaw and build a German "Construction Department". Hubert Gross was the architect who was at that time head of the town planning office in Wurtzburg. Gross joined the party in May ‘33 knowing that something great is coming up. In contrast, my father, who became the chief architect of Hamburg, joined the party like in fact most architects in Germany on 1st May, 1937. I started to call myself a private detective and I was searching for the German architects who worked in Poland during the War. Gross upon the advice of Mr. Dengel developed a dream of reducing Warsaw to next to nothing. (minimal music) On the screen is a visualization from one of my projects. It's based on fascist plans for the construction of a new German city, die Neue Deutsche Stadt Warschau. This is a virtual re-construction of that new Warsaw. This is the city centre. It's a relatively small city. Entrances were to be guarded by watchtowers on all sides. These are the main buildings. On the Praga side, there was to be a district for Poles, who were to be slowly exterminated. The New German City of Warsaw was to be inhabited only by Germans. There was to be no Jewish population. With regard to Warsaw, the Führer has decided that the reconstruction of that city as a major Polish metropolis is absolutely out of the question. The Führer's wish is that in accordance with plans for the development of the General Government territory itself, Warsaw be reduced to the level of a provincial city. From the diary of Governor General Hans Frank. (minimal music) Once the Germans arrived, the terror began almost right away. The official announcements and notices... Everyone had to hand over all their valuables. Jewelry, radios, cameras, furs. Anything of worth had to be turned in. Jews were identified and forced to wear arm-bands with the star of David. It was very unpleasant. In my mind, this was a form of degradation. At any moment I could be humiliated. In the spring of 1940, consultations were begun with a view to creating one or more Jewish housing districts within the city of Warsaw. In the end, however, it was decided that a single district should be established in the area where Jews were traditionally in the majority. Dr Friedrich Gollert, SS-Untersturmführer, Head, Division of Regional Planning, Office of the Governor of the District of Warsaw. (calm music) Where was the Jewish neighborhood in Warsaw? There were Jewish neighborhoods, Nalewki, Nowolipki where it was almost all Jewish, but when you’re a third of the city, you’re all over the city. And the interaction with non-Jews was a normal daily event. That comes to a crashing halt with the building of the Warsaw Ghetto wall, which goes through the heart of the city and divides Jews from non-Jews as they were never divided before. The wall didn't suddenly appear. Bits and pieces started going up in April 1940. These were sections of wall, or barriers with barbed wire. They popped up in various places. They interfered with people's mobility, but it was still possible to get around them. (calm music) The Schmidt & Münstermann Company Concerning: The Jewish Housing District 1 linear meter of border wall is equal to 1.3 cubic meters of wall. Daily requirement for 100 masons: 12 cubic meters of white lime, 1,500 kg cement, 37,000 bricks. I had no idea I was Jewish. So first I was asking: Why do we have to move? And later: What does it mean that I'm Jewish, and why do we have to leave our home? (dramatic music) When we arrived in the Ghetto, the first thing I saw was a horrible poster. I didn't want to be like that Jew on the poster. I was distraught at being forced to live there. I thought that every Jew had to look like that, and I was so terribly humiliated by all this that I said to my mum I didn't want to be a Jew anymore, and I wanted to go back to Marszalkowska St., and why was all this happening anyway? Notice. By order of the District Governor and effective immediately. A self-contained Jewish quarter is to be created in the District of Warsaw with a view to preventing the spread of disease. In the city of Warsaw a boundary running around the Jewish quarter has been established and all border streets are to be simultaneously closed off from it, on both sides, as follows: From Zielna to Krolewska and Zlota. From Zlota to Zielna and Zelazna. From Twarda to Zelazna and Srebrna. From Srebrna to Twarda and Miedziana. From Miedziana to Srebrna and Kazimierz Square. From Kazimierz Square North... (minimal music) Poles could enter the Ghetto, representatives of companies could enter, and so could city workers. Basically, it was for official matters. We already lived in the area that was now the Ghetto, as Muranowski Square fell within the Big Ghetto. However, Jews who lived outside the Ghetto had to move in, and Poles who lived in the Ghetto had to move out. This led to very painful situations for people. They left their homes, their furniture and possessions, carrying only a few small bundles. The Ghetto became very crowded. We see images of the expulsion of the Jewish community. Something similar happened the other way around too. There were tens of thousands of people like us. I remember sitting on a cart, full of our things. We were thrown out of Zelazna, because the Ghetto was created there. We were moved to Brzeska Street, number 5, apartment 110. It was a ruin. Measures involved the resettlement of around 700 Ethnic Germans, 113,000 Poles and 138,000 Jews. The Warsaw Jewish housing district is an enclosed area, cut off from its surroundings by walls, fences, and so on. Movement of persons and goods in and out of the area is by special permit only. Dr Friedrich Gollert, SS-Untersturmführer, Head, Division of Regional Planning, Office of the Governor of the District of Warsaw. For people like me, being outside the Ghetto wall didn't mean life was easy. We were given a single room to live in. There were five of us. (minimal music) The Jewish population always looked for contacts outside the Ghetto wall to get food. At first, Lonia came to us on Brzeska St., though we weren't well off at the time. We were three siblings, my mum, my dad. Dad did smuggling, because there was no other way then. But my mum put aside potatoes and peelings for her. I'm not sure what else she got, but we somehow shared. Later, Lonia stopped coming. Of course, we didn't know why. Father kept rolls of banknotes. I don't know if they were larger denominations then, but the rolls grew smaller and smaller, until there was no money left. After that my sister simply disappeared. I don't know how. She and my father just ceased to exist. I don't remember any farewell or any of the circumstances. Maybe my memory rejected it because it was too terrible. (the noise of moving cars) The city center was cut off, and ceased to function normally. When you see which part of the city made up the Ghetto, you realize it was the heart of Warsaw. If you take into account that the Germans also carved off a piece for themselves, what was left of Warsaw for Varsovians was just a part. There was the German residential district in the south of Warsaw, and this also had a demarcation. And its very clear that nobody else was supposed to live there. The German housing district has been created for the protection of the German population at their request. The Police cannot guarantee Germans living outside of this district the same degree of personal safety as is provided to those living within it. Hans Pfliegner, Nazi Party Stabsamtsleiter, Warsaw Soldiers must not be seen on the street or in any public place in the company of Poles – men or women – nor should they enter restaurants with them. Beware when making acquaintances. You can never be sure who it is you are dealing with. No Pole, and certainly no Jew, can have honest intentions towards a German. From instructions to Soldiers of the Wehrmacht temporarily stationed in Warsaw. (minimal music) Night and day, by rail, in carts and buses. Jews arrive here from Polish towns and villages. The individual vanishes in this enormous human mass. People are crammed in, individual faces are unrecognizable. (minimal music) (the sound of a moving streetcar) The German army and civilians must in any event be protected from the Jews, immune carriers of disease bacteria. The separation of Jews from the rest of the population, Polish as well as Ethnic Germans, is a moral and political imperative. Traffic in the center of Warsaw has only been minimally affected by the creation of the Jewish housing district. Above all in the interests of the Wehrmacht and the economy, great care was taken to ensure that certain main thoroughfares would remain crossable without obstruction to through traffic. Waldemar Schön, SS-Standartenführer, Director, Department of Resettlement, Office of the Governor of the District of Warsaw (minimal music) The German planners divide, and then administer their division. They even designate which streets a tram is to travel along, to shorten its route through the Ghetto, creating two ghettos. It would all be a terrifying mishmash of evil. (knocking noises) Some Ghetto borders changed literally every week. This was the subject of haggling between the city administration and the Ghetto management. Whether a building would stay in the Ghetto or not, especially buildings on the periphery. Chlodna Street ended up dividing the Jewish District. The District was cut into two parts by the critically important tram line that ran along Chlodna. The ghetto was divided into two parts, a small ghetto and a large one. In order for Jews to move back and forth between the small and large ghetto it was necessary to stop the flow of traffic at intervals. Since this was inconvenient for the Germans. Jews were given permission to cross over as infrequently as possible. (minimal music) As I walked along Zelazna, I would see from a distance the crowd milling at the corner of Chlodna. People would be shifting restlessly on the spot waiting for the German police to decide when the traffic on Chlodna was light enough, and the crowd on Zelazna thick enough to warrant letting the Jews across the street. (minimal music) When the moment finally came, the police cordon would part and the impatient crowd would surge forward in both directions, pushing each other over in the panic to distance themselves from the dangerous German presence, and melt once more into the depths of the two ghettos. (minimal music) (the sound of moving cars) A line in the pavement shows where the Ghetto border ran. How the Ghetto fit into Warsaw. Not as an isolated island, surrounded by the unknown, but in the context of the city. On each plaque there is a nail showing where we are. A part of downtown Warsaw was torn away, so this part is raised. Our intention - Tomasz Lec's and mine - was to show the Ghetto in real space, how it was, and where the boundary ran. (the sound of a bicycle riding) I think very important was when the City of Warsaw put down kind of the boundaries, in the sidewalk, you see I’m in the Ghetto, I’m out of the Ghetto, with a little plaque. Very important. It’s there, it’s not a tall monument, but it’s there when you want to see it, you’re reminded. The streets of the ghetto - and they alone - ended in walls. Sometimes, I would be heading unsuspectingly in a particular direction, when suddenly, without warning, I would come up against one of these walls. My way would be blocked, yet everything in me wanted to keep on going, and there was no logical reason why I should not be able to do so. In that instant, the street on the other side of the wall would become irresistible, necessary the most precious place on earth. There was nothing I wouldn't have given to be part of what was going on there. But it was no use. Time and again, I would give up in defeat and retrace my steps with the same feeling of despair. (street noises) (minimal music) A Jew who didn't have a lot of money, or didn't have a Pole who was his friend didn't stand a chance. There was nothing he could do. He cared only about what he would eat the next day, and what he would give his children. I was one of those who didn't have anything. Smuggling started immediately. Otherwise you couldn't stay alive. 80 percent of food in the ghetto came from smuggling, not from the official suppliers authorized by the Germans. If someone had money, they'd get things in somehow. I once witnessed a tram passing through Muranowski Square, and as it turned, items were thrown out. It couldn't stop in the Ghetto. Trade carried on this way. (dramatic music) Smuggling was an important instance of cooperation between people in the Ghetto, and people outside. (dramatic music) The Mirowski Halls were central to trade. In occupied Warsaw there were products there, and food. The Jewish population was always looking for a chance to obtain food. And Hala Mirowska was one of the parts of the city immediately adjacent to the Ghetto. I remember the Ghetto wall ran there, diagonally across from the Halls. (minimal music) In some places the ghetto walls did not come right down to the pavement. At regular intervals there were openings at ground level, through which water flowed into drains running alongside the sidewalks. These openings were also used by children, for smuggling. Tiny dark creatures with legs like match-sticks would converge on these openings from all sides. Terrified eyes darted from left to right, and frail paws dragged through bundles that were often bigger than the tiny smugglers themselves. (dramatic music) Notice. Any Jew unlawfully leaving the designated housing district is to be punished by death. The same punishment will apply to persons who consciously protect such Jews or in any way assist them. Warsaw, 10th of November 1941, Dr Fischer, Governor (minimal music) Sienna is a very important street for me. This is a street I was scared of and I still am to this day. I've never walked this street without feeling afraid. Behind this wall, I spent more than two years in the Ghetto with my family. When I first found myself back here, I began looking obsessively for the hole through which my mum and I had escaped. I just stood here going back in time, trying to figure out where that hole could be. But the hole was probably somewhere else, further on. My mum did something that no normal person would do. After we escaped from the Ghetto, she went with me to the Main Station. She got into the compartment with German officers. Because she spoke good German, she asked if she could sit there with her daughter. They let us in. I wonder if I could've done what my mum did. That was heroic. I see two years of humiliation, imprisonment, hunger and fear behind me. As I said, I'm scared of Sienna Street. I still expect to either see or remember something terrible there. (minimal music) All around I could see hand carts, and on them bodies of men, women and children, piled carelessly one on top of the other. I became aware of a strange, vaguely sweet and sickening odour I'd never smelled before. A Jewish Policeman explained: "Next to the Jewish cemetery there was once a large field. Today it's one of the biggest mass graves ever, filled with the bodies of Jews from all corners of Europe". Could this be real? How was it possible that a human being of flesh and blood could be allowed to die in such a pitiful fashion? (dramatic music) The German occupation murdered 90% of the Jews here. It’s heartbreaking. And then if you could imagine, that not only does the wall go through the heart of the city, right in the middle of a street it stops, but on the other side of that wall, starvation, disease, and very soon after deportation to death. (minimal music) Treblinka Station On the Tluszcz-Warszawa line, from the station "Warschau-Ost", the tracks stretch out before you, and the train it never swerves. Sometimes the journey lasts five and three-quarter hours, but it can also take a lifetime and last until you die... And the station is a small one with three fir-trees in a row, and the sign is not at all unusual: it says "Treblinka Station", nothing more. It doesn't have a ticket counter, and there's no porter to be found, and not even for a million Zlotys could you purchase a return. No one is waiting on the platform and no one waves a scarf. There's only the heavy sound of silence and mute desolation to welcome you. And the signal post is silent, and the row of fir-trees too, and black lettering informs in silence that‚ Treblinka Station is where you are. Resettlement is taking time. At any moment it could pick up speed. The process is not yet complete. These notes are being written out of an instinctive desire to leave behind a trace. Out of a despair that reaches screaming pitch. And to justify still being alive despite the deadly uncertainty. There's a noose around our necks. When the knot slackens, screams escape our throats. Cries like ours have rung out in vain all through history, with only a distant echo heard. (sad music) (the sounds of a moving tram) For security reasons, I order that the ghetto of Warsaw be demolished. All utilizable building parts and other materials of any value, are to first be salvaged. An overal plan for the razing of the ghetto is to be submitted to me. We must in any event ensure that the living-space occupied up until now by 500,000 sub-humans and in no way fit for habitation by Germans, disappears completely. And that Warsaw, this city of one million, always a center of corruption and revolt, is reduced in size. Heinrich Himmler, Reichsführer-SS (minimal music) In the Ghetto, at the same time as an organized resistance group was preparing to fight, Jews were going into hiding. I descended into that bunker in January '43, and in April the Uprising broke out. My brothers left to take part in the Uprising. This bunker was built around a basement that had been dug deeper, with boarded up sides. The dug out earth was piled up all around, and it provided some kind of insulation. When the fires started, everything in the neighbouring basements collapsed and burned. But this bunker survived. I took part in the Uprising, and I was wounded. I remember 1943, at the end of Nowogrodzka St. I remember seeing uncanny clouds of smoke rising from the north. Fighting in the Ghetto, something happening there. I remember that picture. (dramatic music) The Jewish Quarter of Warsaw is no more. Jürgen Stroop, SS-Gruppenführer It still pains me that after all these years I never got to mourn my family. I never even had time for that. I left everyone. I had six brothers and one sister, parents. I'm the only one who came out of all that. I was left as a witness. If I'd... There would be nobody left. The value of life is that you can bear witness to something. The Goose Street Camp was set up to hold people needed to dismantle the Ghetto. The Ghetto wasn't blown up with dynamite, but disassembled. It was total plunder. And this camp was hell. People died there. On the ruins of the Ghetto, the Germans planned to create a park for Germans. Hence the demolition. The terrain was to be covered over with earth for a paradise garden. The intention was to destroy the capital of what was formerly Poland. That was the main intention to destroy the idea alone of a capital, because there was no more Poland. I was almost a year on the Aryan side. There was a whole network of help. If things got dangerous, someone would come by to lead you on. My sister-in-law and I were taken away to another place. They split us up. The son of the caretaker of the building where my brother was, led the Gestapo to him. They took my brother, and a young boy - little Zygmunt - who had been helping him. And they took away the caretaker, who was looking after my brother. He was the father of the young hooligan who betrayed them all. And at Gestapo HQ my brother, little Zygmunt, and the father - Mr. Grochowski - were all killed. (dramatic music) On the 1st of August 1944, the Uprising broke out. I twice lived through the burning of Warsaw. In 1944, a German architect documented the blowing up of buildings one after the other. It’s very difficult to believe that a person who calls himself an architect, and he writes his designation and his name on these cards, his job is to document that the bombing squads did their job. It has to be proved, that this road and that road, and the next road, one building after the other, gone. All around, the walls were almost red hot, and people were being herded along. From both sides of the burning streets burning debris was coming down. Warsaw was on fire, and you could feel it. (dramatic music) Very early Spring, 1945. On this side of the wall, burnt out buildings, sometimes only half standing. It was a landscape of ruins. But when you entered the area where the Ghetto had been, you'd discover it was more like a desert. I remember running over those hills of rubble. Through those ruins was a pathway and a post with a sign: Nowolipie Street. I counted my steps, hoping to find the remains of my building. And I found it. It had had a gate decorated with yellow tiles. Suddenly, amongst the rubble, I saw yellow tiles. I took one tile for myself. But much later, my wife was packing, and she saw this little piece of wall and threw it out. I don't have it anymore. When Hubert Gross returned to his home town in April ‘45. He came across the hills, saw his home city burning. He took off his uniform, buried it in the woods, and said, “I feel no guilt.” There was in his mind no admission of any guilt. Among those architects whom I met, nobody ever mentioned anything or answered the question why were they there? Whose intention did they fulfill? No answer. (minimal music) I didn't feel any personal connection to the Ghetto before my mum died. She had shown me this picture, saying that someone from her family was in it. Soon after, a book about the same picture came out. What my mum had told me made me feel I should look into it. From that book I learned that the woman who is visible here, behind this boy with raised hands, is my mum's older sister. I said to myself - this is my aunt. That's when my personal connection to this began. I hope I won't get lost. (laugh) I only found my grandfather's grave recently. Young people had been here, cleaning and refurbishing. Some tombstones were propped up, and that's how I found it. It made me very happy, as this is the only proper place I can come to and light a candle. It was standing all by itself. All around it the stones were knocked down. There it is. This is my grandmother's grave, my father's mother. She died the year I was born. So my mother was three months pregnant with me when the funeral happened here. (sad music) It's here. I didn't bring a candle. This is my grandfather's grave. From this tombstone I learned that he was of the Levite lineage. That's what this image means. Abraham Jehuda, son of Asher. So my great-grandfather's name was Asher. It was an amazing, almost mystical feeling. As if my roots were here. Even now as I'm standing, there's the feeling of continuity and oneness with my grandmother. (minimal music) Why was the cemetery not destroyed? I think the simple answer is that the Germans ran out of time. Their first focus was killing the living, not murdering again the dead. But simply they ran out of time. Of the dozens of major synagogue buildings only one still stands today and that is the Nozyk synagogue. Why this one synagogue survived then we’re already almost getting into mystical answers. The practical answer is that it was already outside of the Ghetto by the time the Uprising began in April of ‘43, and was being used by Germans as a warehouse and a stable for horses. (minimal music) But not all the Jews were killed, and today we have a small, but trying to be creative, trying to be vibrant real Jewish community in Warsaw. After liberation in 1945 you couldn’t live in Warsaw really. And slowly trying to rebuild and then getting again undermined by Soviet occupation and oppression. (sad music) It's difficult to imagine what was here before the War. This area has changed so much. Certain streets and squares ceased to exist, names were changed, directions were altered. No more than a dozen or so original buildings survived. (the sound of a working excavator) This space has many dimensions and many layers. What we see underneath is the second layer, which makes itself felt, when workers dig down to place pipes, revealing the remains of old life. This is probably the most unusual place in Warsaw. It was the location of the Ghetto. In 1949, the architect Bohdan Lachert created a housing estate, which was to be a memorial space. New life was supposed to blossom within its walls. What was unique was that buildings were made of rubble-concrete bricks, along with everything else that was in the rubble too, including human remains. Buildings stand on a rubble-concrete base and rise from these strange little hills. In Warsaw, a flat city, this immediately attracts attention. (sad music) People calling me and saying there are spirits in my apartment. I’m in the old Ghetto. Can you do something? Well I have to say that is beyond my competence, but I did go and I said psalms. Because if a person feels I can make them, if I can make someone feel more at peace, I’m happy to do so. (sad music) This line shows where Muranowska St. would have run. Here, on the corner, is the building where you would have lived. Number 10. And then 12, 14, 16. Yes, and here was the gate you would walk through and here were shops. Here was Mr. Gujski's restaurant. He was a Pole, and he had a son Jas, whom we'd play with in the courtyard. On this map of the city, I've marked the location of your home, superimposing it on the current image. - Out in the street, apparently. - At the intersection. That's the place where your home once stood. I was born here. (the sound of moving cars) (minimal music) The memory of the Ghetto, it’s beginning to really return into the memory, into the soul, of Warsaw. (minimal music) Give people a chance to remember and chances are they will remember. April 19th, the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. While we’re moving farther away from the event actually the number of people coming is growing. That’s a sign of hope. (sad music) (the sound of a moving streetcar)