Transcript for Raging Angels (1995) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [music playing] [motorcycle engine] [music playing] (SINGING) Look away from [inaudible].. I can take you anywhere. Spin the vision with me, [inaudible] with the wind. Move closer to me, I can make you anyone. I think you're ready to see [inaudible].. The power of what rises [inaudible] Sleep with the devil, the devil will take you away. [inaudible] You can see, but you're blind. [inaudible] but they can see in your mind, the caves of Babylon. [inaudible] getting as good as you gave. Sleep with the devil, and [inaudible] Sleep with the devil, the devil will take you away. If he tries to get in, I head him off. There's no way he gets past me. I tried to reach him earlier. Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave. I'm standing here. Here's here. I got to go. Yes, I will call you later. I've been calling you all day. Yeah, the phone's screwed up or something. Come on, I gotta get in here. Not tonight. The guys took a vote. It's nothing personal. Yeah, they took a vote on what? You're out of the band. This is my band. Not anymore. Not tonight, Chris. Nobody wants another scene. The boys have been carrying your ass for months. When you show up, if you show up, you're wasted. Yeah, well, I'm taking care of it, all right, man? Time is up. We're going into the studio on Monday. The guys love you, Chris. But you gotta understand, this is business. How can you do this, man? Look, why don't you just give me some more time? Listen, why don't you take a cab home? I don't want you driving that thing. I gotta go. I'll find another band. [inaudible] CHRIS: (SINGING) [inaudible] as I find my way home, spirits light in the dawn as I find my way home, my dog likes milk bones. [dog whines] I guess you think you do a better job, huh? [dog barks] I think it sounds great. Yeah, if I could ever finish it. Hey, did you see this? Third best selling record in the country. It's not fair. It was your band. You made them what they are, and they kick you out right before they get a big record deal? Maybe they just needed somebody sober. It wasn't me. That's in the past now. You're going to make it. We both will. [diner chatter] Would you like a refill? [inaudible] I sure love the way you smile. You see anything, man? I get a bad feeling. Is that it? You guys don't want anything else? No, that's it. All right. Take it easy. [gun shots] [screaming] [music playing] What happened? There was a shooting [inaudible] Let's get out of here. Come on. [inaudible] The next thing I knew, I turned around, and he was dead on the counter. Jesus Christ. So what do we do now about my job? Yeah. Well let's cruise in her for a start, grab a newspaper and go through the classifieds, and I'll get something to drink. Chris. Right, nothing to drink. Hey, you need a place to stay? The coalition can help you. I know what it's like. Six months ago, I was living out here. Go on. Take it. Get yourself off the street for a little while. Oh that's cool. I don't need it. Thanks. Take it. Remember that. What was that all about? I don't know. Do I look homeless? No, of course not. Come on. Hey. You OK? Just had a dream about that boy who was shot in the restaurant. I used to have nightmares when I was a kid, all the time. About Mom and Dad's accident. I'd wake up all scared and cry. And then Grandma'd hear me, and she'd come in and make it all better. What would she do? She just sit with me and hold my hand and cry with me and pray all her crazy prayers. Did they work? I think the prayers helped her. Thanks, Grandma. I'll have this back to you by Friday. Of course you will. You always do. It's because I raised you right. I did, didn't I, Chris? So far so good. Good news, there's some record guys coming to hear us play tomorrow. They really liked our demo tapes. Oh that's marvelous. Darling, I'll pray for it. I always do, but tonight I'm going to pray to God that you get a good gig. Well, who knows. Maybe after tomorrow, I'll buy you a big house in the hills. Oh, Chris, you know what really would make me very happy, really if you and Lila got married, or else send her back to St. Louis where she'll be safe. It's New York, Grandma. What's so safe about New York? Nothing. It's just that I worry so much about the two of you. Ever since, I've been having these dreams. I don't know what in the world they mean. But I know it's not something good. Maybe what it means, Grandma, is that you haven't been taking your medicine regularly. - That's true. Grandma, are you robbing banks again? Chris, in this world, you must be as gentle as a dove, but as wise as a serpent. REPORTER: The media extravaganza presented by the Coalition for World Unity will be telecast internationally. Rock legend and outspoken supporter, Colin Gramercy is headlining the concert. Tomorrow's open audition for backup singers is symbolic of Colin's effort to get everyone involved in this movement. Hey. How's it going? I got us some food. What this time? It looks like some poultry of some kind or other, some fruit, and watermelon or pears. I can't really make it out. Did you find anything? Yes, I did. Want to be a test patient for rare diseases? Not really. Actually, did you hear about the Colin Gramercy concert? Mm-mm. They need singers. It's probably the new shit he's into. Oh, like you've got a lot to lose? Besides,what if they wanted both of us, and then we could do it together. Yeah, I need a life-sized picture of Colin Gramercy wanting me on the stage playing for him. OK. You want to audition, don't you? [inaudible] Do you know when the audition is? Yes, it's tomorrow. Will you go? (SINGING) Come to me now. I want to be your best friend for all of time. I want be with you [inaudible] I never want to be alone. [music playing] (SINGING) I never, never really thought that I could feel [inaudible]. [inaudible] what I want to be. Thanks for helping me [inaudible] feel like a bright shining star for only you to see, for only you to see. Now that you've come and set me free, now that I know what love can be, all that I want is you and me. That's all I want. Hold me tight, hold me tight, I won't let you go. Close to you, [inaudible] to you. Give me all your love. All that I want is you to be with me. REPORTER: Senator Harlan, how can you be so against a peaceful, one-world government? Absolute power corrupts absolutely. Global government leads to global dictatorship. Too many Americans have sacrificed their lives for us to throw away our freedoms. REPORTER: Now most would say that you are nationalistic and reactionary, that you're a loner on Capitol Hill. Of course, I am. All the others, the true Patriots, are dead. Senator Myer killed in a mysterious plane crash. REPORTER: Are you saying that-- Senator Wilbury dead in a so-called automobile accident. Well, these were no accidents. There is a force trying to stop us. REPORTER: Senator, don't you think you're being a little paranoid? You're paranoid only if you're wrong. (SINGING) with a longing heart, I'm crying out for you. MAN: That's enough. But I didn't finish. MAN: [inaudible] Hi-- MAN: [inaudible] No. MAN: [inaudible] I can't read this. There's nothing on it. Would you stop playing please? MAN: Go. [inaudible] But I can't sing. There's nothing on the paper. MAN: Sing. But I can't. Sing, dammit. I can't. I said sing. [microphone squealing] [dog barking] [music playing] (SINGING) I'm not concerned with my mortality. My ultraviolet resembles me. Won't you come in my mind and see how I feel inside. Look out through my eyes in the deep blue skies. Tell me what you see. Are you flying with me? [inaudible] on a perpetual ride. We'll dive down onto the shore, [inaudible] forever with me you'll be, we'll live down under the sea. We'll dive down onto the shore, [inaudible].. Forever with me you'll be, we'll live down under the sea. Give me a minute, guys. What's going on? I'm sorry. I had to. I had to come here. It's about Lila. What happened? Well, nothing, not yet exactly. What? Listen, Chris. I had a vision, a terrible warning, a sign. Let me get this straight. You came here, here on one of the biggest days of my life? But-- To tell me about a dream, Grandma? She's in grave danger. So are you. No one's in grave danger. Here's my damn future, all right? All right, Christopher. If you won't do anything about it, I will. All right, look, I'll talk to you when I get home, all right? What's the deal? It's my grandma. She's possessed. Ah, great. REPORTER: A world without borders or politicians, with a single government made up of the wisest people humanity has to offer, the perfect world. That's the goal of the Coalition for World Unity. Thank you. You were wonderful. I mean the coverage is unbelievable. You make me very nervous when you talk like a publicist. Albert, please, we're expecting wonderful things to happen. You're just the greatest spokesman we could dream of. You are fantastic. You really think that, Megan? Of course. I mean, the media spoon feeds the public every word you say. They love it. It's not the words that's important. It's supposed to be motivating people to change. That's what this whole campaign's about. Please. Global change is coming. We're bringing it. Come on. What about the people who went to school, the educated people, the people who pay taxes, huh? How are we going to move them? Who's job is that? This is for a bunch of kids. This is crap. We'll take care of them when the time comes. Don't worry. The whole world is yours. I truly believe so. (SINGING) [inaudible] is crying out for you from my deepest truth. You're the only one I have ever loved. Grandma shows up and has me arrested, and I'll be forced to kill her. That's enough. Thank you. But you didn't let me finish. We'll call you. Next is Lila Ridgeway. [murmuring] Hi. I'm Lila. Do you have your music? Oh, yeah, I got it. (SINGING) I'm crying out for you with a longing heart. I'm crying out for you from my deepest [inaudible].. You're the only one I have ever loved. And I miss you. Yes, I miss you tonight. Say you'll be with me through the lonely nights. Say you'll stay and you'll hold me tonight. Say you'll be with me through the lonely night. In your arms, I feel the light. I'm crying out for you with a [inaudible].. I'm crying out for you from my deepest truth. You're the only one I have ever loved. And I miss you. Yes, I miss you tonight. I miss you. Yes, I miss you tonight. Congratulations. [background chatter] It's not much rehearsal time, so expect late nights. You were great. I can't believe it, not even a callback. All right, thank you, but that's all we have time for. What? We'll contact the rest of you if we need you. Good night. What a fucking joke. Screw this. It's bullshit. I'm not going to do anything. - Yes, you are. - No I'm not, Chris. It's not fair. Do the damn show. Just don't worry about me. I always got the lounge act, right? [music playing] (SINGING) Living without you never could be so alone. Don't need to say it, I never waited so long. Thinking about you in everything I do. Love is forgiving. You know I just live for you. And I, I never made it tonight. [inaudible] it's lovely to see you're just the one for me, I pray. Hey. I though we came here to have fun. What's the matter? Nothing. If you don't want me to go to the rehearsal, I won't go. Come on, Lila. You don't want me to take the gig? That's not it. If it was, would you tell me? Would you? Of course, I would, Lila. I'm really happy for you. I am. I'm happy that you finally get your chance. You'll get yours someday. Yeah, someday. Hey. You and me together? Yeah. Forever. [music playing] (SINGING) Love is forgiving, you know I'm just living for you. [piano music] Hey, Lila. Take five, man. Lila Ridgeway. How do you do? Mr. Gramercy, it's such an honor to be able to work with you. Lila, you got to call me, Colin, all right? Mr. Gramercy sounds like your biology teacher. OK. Colin, that piece you're playing was beautiful. You know, Lila, I'll tell you, ever since I got hooked up with the coalition, it's like I have a reason to write again. I have a reason to live, really. Am I late, because-- No, you're early. Nobody called you. We pushed rehearsal two hours. I'm sorry. Oh, it's OK. Should I just come back? No. So long as you're here, let me show you this place. It's great. OK. You know what we're doing here, Lila? We're planting seeds. That's what the concert's all about. What kind of seeds are you planting. The kind of seeds that are going to help the planet grow into a united world. You know, Lila, the human race is still evolving, spiritually. We're becoming the gods we were always meant to be. This is for you. Wake them up to the truth, because the truth can change people. It can change the world. But there's one truth that is so powerful and dynamic that the moment you hear it, it will change you. And that truth is you are God. We are God. We are our own creation. The world is our creation. And we have the power to recreate this world. You have the opportunity to take part in the making of history, to radically intervene, to aggressively manage the world's resources and its destiny. This is the goal of the Coalition for World Unity. Thank you. MAN: Cut. - How was it? MAN: It was great. It was great, man. Thank you very much. Colin. That was great. It's really cool. Yeah, you think maybe we'll shake some people up with that? Yeah, I'm going to go out and try and do everything I can. You know, Lila, we need a million more people like you. CHOIR: (SINGING) Oh Jesus, oh Jesus, [inaudible] Tell him what you want. Brothers and sisters, think about how precious live is. Tonight we're going to have a healing service now, for there is one among us, one who needs our help. Let us bring him up here now and let the Holy Spirit anoint us and through him let us work to help heal our brother. This brother among us has a tumor in his head that is eating at his eyesight and his hearing, with constant pain and migraines. And tonight, we are going to call on the Holy Spirit for the one and only, the master Jesus, and let us call on the Lord tonight, for the Holy Spirit to anoint us. I cast out now, demon be gone now. [shouting] CHOIR: (SINGING) All of you among us tonight, master Jesus, come forth now. Tell him what you want. Please. It wasn't a dream. It was very real. Sit down please. Make yourself comfortable. Can I get you some tea or water? No, no, nothing, nothing. So, now let me get this straight. You have this vision about this girl, Lila, and Father Bailey sent you to see me? Well, sort of. I didn't know what to do. I even went to the police. You know what they told me, they said, they do not have a Department of Visions yet. Sister Kate could you please help me? Look, what you want, what you need is a spiritual deliverance. In order for me to do that, I would have to have that girl Lila standing right in front of me. But she's a typical teenager. I could never get her to come to your church. Look, medical doctors do not do brain surgery long distance. What I do is not voodoo. I understand. Sister Kate, listen to me. If you do not try, a beautiful young girl will die. OK. OK. All right. I'll come to your house tonight. I'll be there at 8:30 sharp, OK? Thank you God. Thank you, Kate. [suspenseful music] (SINGING) [inaudible] [inaudible] please protect her, [inaudible] besides still waters and make her to lie down in green pastures. He restores my soul. [inaudible] The Lord is my shepherd. Terrible creatures in my vision, I stand against you. (SINGING) I stand against you Why are you praying [inaudible].. (GASPS) Stop praying. (SINGING) (SCREAMS) Sweet Jesus. Lord. [inaudible] I'm cold, and I'm sick. [inaudible] Will you save the children? Oh God. (SIRENS) I know that you don't believe this now, but you are not alone. Are you all right? Does it really matter? [door slamming] Chris, where have you been at? I called your grandma's house, nobody-- Yeah, yeah. What? Look, I know this is really hard for you. But think about what you're doing. You made a promise to me, remember? [dog barking] Save it, dog. Look I'm going to be late, and I'm not ready. Why don't you just try and get some rest, and we'll talk about it when I get home later, all right? Yeah. You should have seen the way he was looking at you. Excuse me? Gramercy. What about him? He was foaming at the mouth. Maybe he just knows good talent when he sees it. You mean he knows a good body when he sees it. The message of the concert is united as one. Mankind can accomplish anything it wants. You are such an asshole. [interposing voices] Hey, do you want me to ask Colin today if you can come down and audition for him? He seems really nice. I don't think he'd mind. COLIN: But today, we have 100 million members around the globe. For the first time in history, mankind really has hope. So please, join us in our worldwide celebration of unity. [screaming] What are you doing? [dog barking] Lila. Shit. [music playing] (SINGING) [inaudible] [inaudible] [tires squealing] Dr. Liden, call cardiology. [inaudible] Chris. They say I have a concussion, but I'm fine. What were you doing? Look, I'm sorry about this morning, all right? No, it's not all right. Why do you do this? Which one of us are you trying to hurt anyway? Well, it's not like that. But it is. I can't just sit by and watch you destroy yourself day after day, Chris. What are you saying? I guess, I'm saying that I think you have a lot of things that you need to work out. And maybe we need some time apart. Maybe you should talk to Colin. What? I just think he could help you. He's been through a lot. You want to help somebody, why don't you help Colin spread his bullshit around, all right? I'm lying here in the hospital, and my girlfriend's reading me my last fucking rites. Well, what do you suggest? I suggest you leave now. Just get the hell out of here. Chris, I want to help you. I want to be with you. Well, guess what, I don't want to be with you, so why don't you get the fuck out of here? Lila. Shit. Lila, you OK? Why won't he let me help him? Lila, Chris isn't as spiritually evolved as you are. But I love him. Lila, you have to let him go. He's destroying himself, and he'll destroy you, too. Why don't you stay at the coalition headquarters for a few nights? There's dorm's there. It will be very convenient. Good idea? [inaudible] right? Good. Lila, how's he doing sweetheart? I raced here as fast as I could. I just can't handle him anymore. I don't know what to do. Lila, I want you to know that I'm here for you any time you need to talk to me. Do you understand? She'll be fine. She's with me now. Well, Chris, I've been keeping my eye on them and what they're doing. They sucker people in, people who really care about their fellow human beings. And then once they got them hooked, they brainwash them. Don't do this, don't say that. You can take my word, they have their own agenda. So that's what you do, you rescue people from cults. When I have to, I try. But what I want to know is do you really love that girl? Yeah, of course I do, more than anything in the world. Then why don't you march in their right now and tell her straight to her face? Today? What are you scared of today? You can walk, can't you? Yeah, of course, I can walk. I just kind of like the idea of you pushing me around in a chair. Well, then do it. Child, rise up and toss aside those wheels. [inaudible] Hallelujah, Lord, thank you, he can walk. I'm placing a lot of God's light around us, because I feel like we're about to step into the very gates of hell itself. Look, I don't get it. Why are you helping me like this anyway? I got my reasons. Hello, gentlemen. Hi, I'd like to see Lila Ridgeway please. She's with the Gramercy show. Your name? Chris. Chris D'Amico, D, apostrophe Amico, just like it sounds. I am sorry, but I'm afraid we're going to have to ask you to leave, sir. What are you talking about? I'm her boyfriend. I want to see her. - I'm very sorry. I'm really very sorry. This is bullshit. [screams] Get your hands off of me, man. Excuse me. We have to go now. Trust me. [inaudible] What? What? Did you feel it? Did you taste it? Taste what? I mean, yeah, maybe it's a little strange. A little strange. What is the Grand Canyon, a little ditch? Ah, come on, Chris, come on. Man, something's going on in there. Woo, baby. You don't know the half of it. No, why don't you fill me in? That coalition building, that's the blackest pit of evil I've ever seen. You know anything about the spirit world? I take that as a no. It's angel and demons, good versus evil. Been going on since the beginning of time. It's just like two rival gangs fighting all around us, fighting over us, but we can't see them. Right. Check please. Chris, listen, it's just their essence vibrating so fast you can't see them. It's like a fan, you know? You see the blade, you turn it on, and zoom, you don't see it. Watch out, just because you can't see it doesn't mean they're not there. Right, right. Amen, amen. [laughs] What is this, time for a sacrifice? What's going on? Home again, home again, jiggety jig. This is my home and where I work. Why didn't I want to hear that? OK, it ain't my home. It's not where I work. Let's go inside. I'll pretend I don't know my way around. I'll make you some coffee. Come on. Should have known you're one of those religious freaks. Hey, hey, I preferred to be called spiritually enlightened. Come on, Chris, let's go inside. What the hell is going on here? You really want to know? Yes. I have a gift. It's called discernment. What? I see angels and demons, kid. Right, right. You couldn't just make something up, like we're being chased by the mafia? Chris, I could tell you stories that would make your eyes bug out. Yeah, and I guess you've seen Elvis, too, right? And UFOs? Come here. Come here, Chris. Come here. This is not just about trying to save your girlfriend's life. This is about trying to save your girlfriend's soul. Do you want my help or what? I'll take the or what. Chris, you need me. Like it or not, that place is bad news, bit time. Someday they'll will be one world, but not the one that Colin is selling. It's taken. His belongs to the devil. (SINGING) This old man, he played one. He played knick knack on my thumb with a knick knack paddy wack, give a dog a gone, this old man came rolling home. This old man, he played two, he played knick knack on my-- My god. Hi. What? My stepfather had a devil. I told you he did. He told me to pray. Why didn't you help me? Did you think I was lying? No. You thought I was making up a story. I went home. My step daddy was waiting, very angry with me. But I knew it wasn't him. Not anymore. Something bad got in. This is what happened to me. And it hurts real bad. [inaudible] You let me die. God hates you. He hates you. You're not Elena. Unclean spirit, I command you by the authority in me. Out. In the name of Jesus, out. [crowd chatter] Whoa. You look delicious. Let's get you inside. Oh, you brought a friend. Hi. Wonderful. [shouting] Gramercy, Senator Holland alleges that World Coalition is misleading the public. That's a funny thing for a politician to say. Why does he have it in for you? Well, I guess we're rocking the boat. The United World would rob lot of politicians of their livelihood. I think politicians are the problem, not the solution. That's a great sound bite, huh? OK, thanks everybody. Thanks. Oh this is beautiful. These are my people, huh? It's amazing. They do love you, Colin. They love you, don't they, Dominique? [inaudible] you would not believe how many countries we have in line for [inaudible] domestically, we have all the networks. This is one for the history books. Good job, Dom. Good job. You want to get a cocktail, doll? I'm glad for [inaudible] bastard. [inaudible] It appears she's the new little lady around. [music playing] (SINGING) The night closing, closing in on me. I watch the sun fall into the sea, and I think of you and me. When my tears are falling down, you're not around. The days are long. The night's eternity. Is this seat taken? No. No. Excuse me. Can I interest two in a hot meal? Yeah. On the bus. [music playing] (SINGING) But you will never see the pain inside of me. Wow. Shit. [inaudible] [suspenseful music] MAN: All clear down here. This really is the best place. This is outrageous. Let me go. Let go, goddammit. FBI, my ass. Welcome, Senator. Who the hell are you? Who I am is not important. Let's just say I am one of those who have been chosen to bring order to the world. We fund organizations like the Coalition. Oh, I know about you and your Orwellian new world order. You rich guys create these groups, and then through them, you just set up your one world socialist super state, and then of course, you're in charge. We do have a small problem to discuss. My investigation of the Global Peace Commission, I assume. We must ask you to please, please leave them alone. They are simply working for world peace. What can be wrong with that, Senator? Cut the crap. They call it international peace, but they are robbing us of our national independence. You cannot alter the course of global events. Just try and stop me. No, Senator. You try and stop us. Senator, you cannot imagine the power that stands behind us. [inaudible] [screaming] How unfortunate, the Senator seems to have suffered a heart attack. Dominick, concerning those marketing concepts we've been working at. What about them? Suppose someone against our agenda decided to assassinate Colin during our little broadcast. What? And what if the shooter isn't so sharp? Dramatically killing one of Colin's entourage instead. Poor little bird, support and sympathy will flow from all over the world for the organization, don't you think? You might be onto something. [elevator ding] [piano music] LILA: (SINGING) Say you'll be with me through the lonely night. In your arms, I feel the light. I'm crying out for you with a longing crying out for you for my deepest truth. You're the only one I have ever loved. And I miss you. Yes, I miss you tonight. I miss you. I miss you tonight. Lila. Chris, what are you doing here? I'm not crazy or anything. I'm not drunk or anything. Lila, can we get out of here? This place isn't safe. Chris, you can't be here. Lila, just come with me now, OK? - Chris, you have to go. - We'll get out of here. You can lead me. Chris, you have to go. What's going on? Lila. How did you get in here? Lila. Hey. Chris! [suspenseful music] Police, halt! [typing] Oh. [sighs] Oh, ugh. Molech. [screams] [gasping] [chandelier rattling] [gasping] Lila. I think we'll be safe here. Colin, it's so beautiful. Think so? For the day will come when the power shall destroy our enemies, and their blood shall flow like rivers, and their children shall lie dead in the street, and so shall begin [inaudible]. Where did you get that, Lila? On your desk. What is it? It's a very old book. It's a book of prophecies that promises us a united world. But what about all that blood? There are those, Lila, the spiritually unevolved, who want us to fail. You mean the people that don't want one world? Exactly. They would like nothing more than to see mankind mired in anarchy. They're the enemy. So they're all going to die for that? Everybody dies. But it's for the better of the world. But how is that right for all those people to die for nothing? Lila, a person's born. They live their life, they learn a lesson, and then they die. But then they come back to begin again, and they'll be our friends. Do you understand? Don' you think it would be better for a few troublemakers to die than the whole world to suffer? I guess. Colin, I can't. I'm sorry. Sure you can, baby. We're standing in front of the Colin Gramercy's Benedict Canyon home, where the famed crusader is readying for tomorrow evening's world wide telecast. COLIN: The world is our creation and we have the power to recreate this world. You have the opportunity to take part in making history to radically intervene, to aggressively manage the world's resources and its destiny. This is our goal at the Coalition for World Unity. [dog whining] Axel. [dog whining] [dog barking] [roaring noise] Aw, shit! [screaming] Chris! Chris, no! [dog barking] [inaudible] redeem us, servants of Satan, out into the pits of hell by the name [inaudible] Lord God, almighty, Jesus Christ. [dog whimpering] Lord, my God. Thank you. I'm sorry. Are you OK? I tripped over a lot of things in my life. Pretty scary stuff, huh? Chris, do you understand what just happened here? It's just it's weird. Everything's back to normal. Chris, this demon is trying to destroy Lila. He's trying to destroy you. Look, I don't know what happened here, all right? This is just-- this-- Listen to me. I'm trying to help out. This is a winged roaring lion, and he's using a possessed human being, Colin. Look, I don't give a shit about Colin, all right? I just know that I don't want Lila in any part of it. CHRIS (ON ANSWERING MACHINE): Hello, you've reached Chris, Lila, and Axel. We're not home right now. But we left Axel at home to screen your calls. At the beep leave a message, thanks, bye. [beep] I knew you'd come, Chris. Who the hell are you, man? I'm the man you could never be. You see, Lila and I connect on a much higher plane. I'm taking Lila with me. Do you understand that? You can't take her with you, Chris. She's one of us now. Just shut up and tell me where she is. The days of the spiritually unevolved will soon be over, and mankind will finally be free. You told me where she is, or I swear to God, I'll blow your fucking head off. [door slams] It was self-defense, Officer. I was surprised by this armed intruder in my study, but I was miraculously able to surprise him with this poker sticking through his head. Colin. Chris, what are you doing? What's going on? I'll get you the hell out of here. Are you crazy? They're planning on killing you tonight at the concert. Chris, please put the gun down, please. Lila, don't struggle. If you cooperate, I'm sure he won't hurt you. Just go. Here, here. These are the keys to the gate. But if you hurt her, no one will be able to help you. [car starting] - That's right, Officer. It happened just a moment ago. Thank you. Chris told Lila we were going to try and kill her at the concert. Why would he say that? That stupid little [inaudible] won't have the slightest idea. Chris, what the hell are you dong? I saw Megan kill somebody, OK. I swear to God, Lila, and they're planning on killing you. Megan is not going to kill anybody. You are going to kill us. [sirens] Shit! Stop the car! [horn honking] God damn. They're not real, Lila. I swear to God, they're not real. Have you lost your mind? Chris, stop! Chris, stop! Freeze! Drop it! Hands on the wheel. [inaudible] I didn't think it was real. - [inaudible] Chris! - Lila. Come on. Spread them. Leave him alone. Chris! On the ground, on the ground. Lila! They weren't real! Please, he didn't do anything! Leave him alone! Come on, lady. Let's go. No, he didn't do anything! Come on, let's go. Please, help him. Leave him alone! He didn't do anything! No, please help me. Colin Gramercy, I called this in, OK? Colin, help him. He didn't do anything! Lila! Take it easy, calm down. Take it easy. Take it easy. You're lucky you're not hurt. Whoa. What are you talking about? CHRIS (ON PHONE): They're calling it kidnapping. Kidnapping? Chris, what do you want me to do? Bail me out. Get me out of here, and get me to that concert. SISTER KATE (ON PHONE): All right, Chris, I'll come and Do what I can, OK? [crowd chatter] ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen and our global audience, we welcome you warmly to our new world extravaganza. [music playing] (SINGING) [inaudible] of a different kind, [inaudible] [crowd cheering] Let's go, let's go. How you doing, babe? You ready to rock? Nervous? Don't be nervous. It's just like a [inaudible] rehearsal. Who are these people? [inaudible] Lila, Lila, you'll need to change. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, Lila. I have to talk to you, all right? Lila, listen to me. Sing from your heart, you sing for the whole world, you understand? [inaudible] People of the world, tonight's our night to celebrate, celebrate our humanity, celebrate our unity. I want to send this message around the world [japanese].. In Japanese, [japanese]. We're one world with one choice. We're one people with one voice. One world! One world! One choice! One choice! One people! One people! With one voice! One voice! [music playing] (SINGING) It was all right, when you used [inaudible] all right. [inaudible] One way or the other, we're moving with each other. [inaudible] the speed of light. And it's hard to tell between the black and the white. And it's hard to see when you're staring into the light. It's all right. [inaudible] when the hunger makes it right. Can't you may this thing go any faster? It's OK. It's OK, Chris. We're going to make it. Of course, if Colin and them had their way, none of us would make it. (SINGING) [inaudible] What are you talking about? Who do they think is going to take over anyhow, [inaudible]?? No way. It's going to be Satan's main man himself, the Antichrist. He's on the planet. He's just waiting for his moment. [horn honking] (SINGING) We're [inaudible] with each other, breaking the speed of light. And it's hard to tell between the black and the white. And it's hard to see when you're staring into the light. But it's all right when the hunger makes it right, when the hunger makes it right, when the hunger, [inaudible]. Hunger, hunger. [crowd cheering] One world! One world! COLIN: One voice! One voice! - One people! - One people! - One choice! - One choice! One world! One world! COLIN: One voice! One voice! COLIN: One people! One people! COLIN: One choice! One choice! COLIN: One world! One world! COLIN: One voice! - One voice! COLIN: One people! One people! COLIN: One choice! One choice! One world! One voice! [gun shot] [crowd screaming] [gun shots] [screaming] Let me go, Colin! There's somebody in there shooting, are you crazy? Chris wasn't crazy. He was right. Lila, listen to me. I'm trying to save you, OK? What, you think I had something to do that? You think I did that? Colin. You seem to have lost track of your goals, my dear. What are you doing with the gun, Megan? You can't fall in love with that girl. It will ruin everything, and you know it. Put down the gun, Megan. I believed in you. Put down the gun, Megan. I trust you. Put it down. I love you. [gun shot] Lila. Did you see her? It was her. She's the one with the gun. Stop it! In God's name. [explosion noise] Oh, Jesus. Father, protect my children. Oh my God! Jesus Christ, please help me. [swords clashing] Our father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, now and forever. [explosion] [music playing] You all right? It's just you and me, huh? Forever. [music playing] (SINGING) Wash me clean, oh God. Make me pure in your sight. As I come near [inaudible] me in the righteousness of [inaudible]. [inaudible] I find my way home, spirits have flown. Waving goodbye to material things from angel wings. (SINGING) Back to nature, my return, change of heart, skin is burned. Found a cure, I'm all hooked up, meditate on mountain top. Born again, contemplate, power of fear I create. Flying high on a wave of love, supernatural. (SINGING) What can I say? What could I do? I'm still with you. Tell me it's safe. Tell me you dare go everywhere. CHRIS: (SINGING) [inaudible] I find to protect nature's respect. Over the ocean and under the sky, learning to fly. [choir singing] LILA: (SINGING) What can I say? What could I do? [inaudible] with you. Tell me you're safe. Tell me you dare go everywhere. [music playing] (SINGING) Well, speak of the devil. [inaudible] to turn from him is what we've got in mind. Just a liar and a thief, [inaudible] where he can go. To hell with the devil. To hell with the devil. To hell with the devil. To hell with the devil. To hell with the devil. To hell with the devil. To hell with the devil. To hell with the devil. Devil, devil.