Transcript for The Engagement Plot (2022) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Are you sure you want to do this, boss? I think that I have to, Leo. You are a braver man than me. No one is braver than you, my man. I know, I was just being modest. Ah. And that is a cut. Hey, Grizzly Adams enough of the cycle close-ups. This is reality TV not you being the next Hitchcock. And welcome to season three of the Price of Love. Will Preston, I would like you to meet our first candidate. I'm ready, Deidra. Emily Johnson, marketing manager. Claire Rodriguez, travel agent. Kayla Spencer, sous chef. Britney Storms, cruise director. Rebecca Ramos, art director 25 Pismo Beach, California. Jennifer Carter, former Olympian. Julia Jenkins, corporate accountant Tempe, Arizona, 26 years old. Hello, Will. I'm Julia. Julia, beautiful name. So, tell me about your job. Well, I guess you could say, it's my job to keep people honest. Honesty is the best policy and relationships and all of life. Thank you, Julia. See you later. You can count on that, Will. Catherine Lee 28 stockbroker, Seattle, Washington. Pleasure to meet you, Catherine. Please, call me Cat. That's not too informal, is it? If we are going to get to know each other, we can check the formalities at the door. I'll see you soon, Cat. Meow. Kelcie Chambers, 26 certified nutrition counselor, yoga instructor and self-described Insta influencer, Newport Beach, California. It is so nice to meet you, Will. I am Kelcie and I got you a little something. That is really nice, thank you. I had engraved with my social media handle Wow. I would love to introduce Will Preston to my 3 million+ followers. And, I hope you keep me around long enough to let me do that. Will, meet Hanna Knight, she is 32 she teaches both elementary school and Sunday school at her local church. She's from Larke Springs Colorado. Great to meet you. Great to meet you too. Sorry, I'm little awkward I've never done anything quite like this before. Don't worry, neither have I. Good, so not alone then. So, you're a teacher? Yes, I teach fifth grade and I never thought that I would find myself in a castle. Me either. So, can I ask you what might be sort of a odd question? Sure. How would you define true love? Something my mother used to always say. True love is what makes us real. It was nice to meet you, Will. It was nice to meet you too, Hanna. See you soon. That's a wrap on the day, beautiful job, Will. Is it okay if I ask questions? I will get with you. That was a brilliant ad lib. Do what comes naturally. Okay. I could tell is soon as we locked eyes, instant connection. I wasn't just going to shake his hand; I gave them a gift and a hug. We were told to keep a professional like a job interview. Oh, like you're very professional meow? Besides, Will is ridiculously handsome up close, I mean his hair, his eyes, his perfect skin. Something funny? Oh, no. Don't mind me. Sure doesn't seem like nothing. Holy Hanna. Is that supposed to offend me? Yes, Will is very handsome but, none of this is real life. Good luck making it past the first round with the attitude. We've known him for what, 30 seconds. If I'm sent home first, I won't take it personally. Clearly you are a fish out of water holy Hanna. Anyway, I'm already anticipating our first kiss. All right ladies, good job, good job. Tonight is our first token ceremony and I want you all to do your all best look good, make it happen. All right? Hello, contestants. Welcome to your first token ceremony. In the price of love just like in life, first impressions aren't everything. But, they are vital. You all had a chance to make a lasting impression on Will. Hopefully, you felt the same about him. For eight of you, tonight is the first of many more interactions with Will. In which, he will get to know you and you will get to know him. As you continue to interview for the role of his fiancée. But, that means for two of you, your journey is coming to an end tonight. I met 10 incredibly charming and lovely women today. We are only in our first round and I'm already very overwhelmed with this decision. When I say your name, please step forward to accept a token of my affection. This medallion represents the desire to get to know you on a deeper level. If you do not receive a medallion, please know that I appreciate you and I am glad that we have met. Even just for a brief encounter. So, let's get this started, shall we? Kelcie, your candidacy has been accepted. I had no doubt about your judgment, Will. Thank you so much. Wow. So unexpected. Thank you. Julia, your candidacy has been accepted. Rebecca, Claire, Emily, Kayla, Catherine, If I could hand up three more of these I would. I don't make the rules. This last gift goes to someone who captured my imagination. This medallion goes to Hanna Knight. Hanna, your candidacy has been accepted. Thank you for giving me a chance. Thank you for giving me a chance. Ladies, if you didn't receive a medallion tonight, know that somewhere out there your perfect match is waiting for you. Good night. We are in a castle. That's why don't have great service. And they have us on a really tight leash, so no spoilers get out. It is supersecret you have to be very quiet. You chose me for your one allowed phone call? You are too good to me, BFF. I don't deserve you. I think we should break up. I just feel like I'm living in another universe right now. Everything look so glamorous on TV but up close this is just a bunch of people pretending. I do not see how a real relationship could come out of this. Hang in there, Hanna. If this guy isn't smart enough to realize that you are the best thing that's ever happened to him, he's a waste of oxygen. By the way, aren't you glad that I signed you up for this? The jury is still out on that one, but he is very handsome. I will give him that. That's the spirit. You've got this in the bag. You go girl. I love you, I have to go now. I can't believe you live in Colorado, and we have never met before. I don't know if you looked at a map recently, but Colorado is a pretty big state. That's a good point. So, what kind of store does your dad own? It is called Sweet Knights. Home of the world's most delicious candy apples. My mom and dad opened it together when they were first married. My mom she passed away a few years ago. Sorry to hear that. Thank you. My dad has been trying to do everything on his own recently. You know what, I just love apples, and candy, and pretty much all sugar products. Maybe I can come visit and try one of your Sweet Knights candy apples sometime. I would love that. Clark Springs is just a few hours south of Denver it's like a smidge on the map, but you are welcome anytime. All right. Okay. It is a date. Hanna, would you say that you are falling for Will? Falling for him, gosh, I don't know. I think that we should probably check back in a week and see if I'm still here. Cut. Let's go again. Where is that sweet Hanna charm? Show us what separates you from those fake and pretentious girls that don't know Will like you do. You want different? Do you want real or is this like just for entertainment? I think good TV requires both. Both. Okay. Am I falling for Will? I think that Will is one of the sweetest men that I've ever met. The wealth, the success, that I don't care about. But what I do care about is when I talk, I feel like he really listens. And he respects my faith. And my commitment to find true love, and a partner to grow old with. But, sometimes when I'm away from everyone and I'm alone, I just wonder what a small-town girl like me has to offer someone like him. That was beautiful, Hanna. Hey, that's what I'm talking about. That was good. We have been watching the dailies and could this farmer's daughter actually win the season? Well, it's her and that social media girl but Will seems to care more about Hanna. What can I do about that? You are aware that the network wants to do a series spinoff with the winning couple, right? Of course, I know that. So, then, obviously put two and two together that nobody wants to see will toss rocks in the river with Holy Hanna. Will is about to go on his home visits with both Hanna and Kelcie's family. I will ask leading questions; I will try to nudge him as best I can, but I can't force a guy to reject a woman that he really cares about. We like you as a producer for this new series too, Tyson, but there won't be one if they audience is bored out of their minds. Figure it out. Little shrimp. Wow, that shrimp looks amazing Mrs. Chambers. Please, call me Janice. What? So, Mr. Chambers, what you do for a living? Well, my most important job is being a husband and dad to my lovely wife and two wonderful kids. When I'm not busy being a very successful real estate broker. Really, Karsten? This is going to be on TV, you know that, right? Whatever. I really admire your commitment to your family, sir. So, Karsten, your sister tells me you're really into surfing. What is your spot? Trestles is my jam, but the chicks are cooler at County line. Boys will be boys, am I right? Mommy, daddy, have you heard about Will's new of ecologically friendly cosmetics? We are helping our customers reduce their carbon footprint. We have recycled application brushes, sustainable ingredients, stuff like that. I love sustainability. That's why I own three Teslas. Yay, earth. #K-CHAMB-BEAST. What? No. A hilarious kid. I like him. Oh my gosh I'm so sorry. This is exactly why I don't see much of my family anymore. Kels, it's fine. Your parents seem really nice. You are just the sweetest. Aren't you? Okay, roll sound. Will I had so many doubts when Hanna said she was going on this show. And, I don't like this whole dating multiple women at once thing. Believe me, sir. Please, Jim. Jim, I understand your reservations in this is all pretty strange for me too. While Hanna has been going to been doing research on reality TV. It seems to me that what you see on your screen is just sort of like manipulated by the producers. But, I'm hoping that this lunch feels like something real, something normal, in the midst of all of the drama that you all must be going through back the castle. For both of you, and my sweet daughter. You know, Jim, actually it's not much different than how I grew up. Dinner every night around the table with my mom, my dad, in my little brother. In a home quite like this. So, you didn't always have - A silver spoon in my mouth. I wasn't going to word it like that but, it just surprises me that you had a normal childhood. Why? Because I'm so abnormal now? Do you still get together often? With your folks? Actually, it's been a few years since we all sat down for lunch like this. They only live an hour away. I do call them a few times a week when I'm not shooting a reality TV show. What do you think? Is he going to pick you? I don't know what I'm starting to hope he does. I like him, sweetheart. Sometimes I do worry because we are from two very completely different worlds and he is so focused on business I think maybe somebody else could be better for him but then I think about how sweet he is and how easy our conversations are. I know it doesn't make sense but, I'm really falling for him. As we near the final ceremony, Will, where is your heart at? You know, Kelcie is a lot of fun, full of energy and excitement. I never know what to expect with her, in a good way. I really think that we could make a great team in business and in life. But, I know that this isn't the apprentice or shark tank. With Hanna, it is something deeper. I really feel like I can be myself around her. She makes me want to be a better man without actually saying the words. Her heart, her tenderness, humor, her ability to share her feelings and to listen. How could I ever let her walk out of my life? So it sounds like you are leaning towards Hanna? I have a question for Will. You're the boss. What are your thoughts about what Hanna said to her father after that sweet little lunch that you had the other day after the cameras were turned off? I'm not sure what you mean. I wasn't eavesdropping. I have a quote here. "We are from two different worlds," how could we share a life together, it doesn't make any sense. "Kelcie is so much better for him then I will ever be." She said that? She did. Do you think that Kelcie has any doubts? I don't know. Yeah, just some food for thought, young man. You are making a lifetime decision here. Imagine if the woman that you chose decided to change her mind that it wasn't something she wanted any more. I guess it's going to be a tough decision. Hanna, you have captivated my heart since the first time I saw you. I knew that right away there was something incredibly special about you. I could see us having a life together. The thing is, we live in two totally the different worlds. I'm just afraid that my life and my work will take you away from your dad, your hometown, your students. Hanna, I just can't. I won't do that to you. I'm so sorry. Kelcie, from the moment I met you I couldn't get you out of my head. I can see us having a fun, adventurous future together in business, and in marriage. I have fallen in love with you, Kelcie. Will you marry me? Oh my gosh, yes, yes. Yes. I love you so much, Will. I can't wait to spend the rest of our lives together. We are going to make such a great team. Oh, boy. All here. Yes. We could be halfway to Vegas before anybody knows that you are missing. No, time to face the music, brother. Got you. You brought your driver to a board meeting? First of all, I didn't know that there was going to be a board meeting. Second, I'm still CEO of this company. At least according to my Linkedln page. So, if I need Leo here is my second set of eyes and ears, he gets to be here. Fine. Yeah. Let's get straight to business then, shall we, Will? Buzzfeed and the rest of the click they world our reporting that you and Kelcie are officially no longer #willcie. My love life or lack thereof is in no way this company's business. That would be wrong. You invited this company into your love life when you went on that show in because of your choices, our sales have been tanking for months. Temporary setback. We will rebound. Come now. Out of loyalty to the man who brought us to this dance, I think it's important that we stand with him in every way that we can. But, Will, out of respect to the board, think it's also important that you listen to counsel. I'm listening. Well, the truth is, a 15% hit month over month for three months isn't a setback. It is a bloody disaster. Okay. Yes, Kelcie did end our engagement. She thought she was marrying into a successful company but, I guess that she is not the case anymore. That tends to happen when you break up with America's sweetheart. Then you get dumped by the woman that you replaced her with. Will, you are red meat for all those little Internet trolls. Not to mention Hanna's own grassroots army which is still out for your hide. Anyone else want to pile on? I hate to sound like a broken record but, I've got one word for you, Vegas. Give me five days in any one of those casinos and I will solve all the company's financial troubles, we can stop listening to Mary Poppins and Macy Gray over there. Thank you but probably not an option. I'm here for you, chief. Glad to see you are taking this seriously. If anyone else has any ideas, I'm open. I do. Yay. I know you are all starting to think about middle school, so I want to know what questions you have about getting ready for sixth-grade. Jamison. Is it true that all the eighth-graders dunk the sixth-graders in trash cans on the first day of school? What? My older brother said it was going to happen to me. Your brother is messing with you. My sister said that the eighth-graders are cool and it's the seventh graders who think that they are the big kids on campus. Most of the boys haven't hit puberty yet so they are still pretty scrawny. I think that you are right, Kyla. Thank you, Ms. Knight. I just want to say that the way that Will treated you was so unfair. He is a dummy. No wonder he and Kelcie broke up. Wait, they broke up? Oh, yeah, Kelcie keeps showing up on my feed. She was hysterical crying. Mascara everywhere. She is so heartbroken. You didn't know? No. But remember my rule, there is no Price of Love talk in my class, right? Yes, Miss Knight. Thank you. I think we are ready to move on to our next assignment, who has a word search puzzle? We don't have a store like this in Telluride. That will be $7.42. You'll love that milk and cereal Apple that was my daughter's favorite. And I still love it today, daddy. Hanna? Hanna Knight Yes Oh my gosh, I can't believe it's actually you. Can I get a selfie with you? Of course. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you too, thank you so much. Instagram, dad, you have to catch up with the rest of the world. I know what it is, I just didn't want to acknowledge the social media that called you all those horrible names. Hanna's Knights are still very supportive. What is it? My students told me that Will and Kelcie split up. That's too bad. Wait, did you know? Only about a dozen customers brought it up every day for the past several days. Why did you not tell me? You have been off the grid, I was protecting you. Well, thank you, I'm a big girl, I can handle it. As hard as that show was on you, the one good thing to come out of it was, it put Sweet Knights on the map. Lord knows that we needed it. After what we took the last few years, we needed something good to happen. Your mom was so much better at running this place than I will ever be. I grow the apples. But she had a much better love for crunching the numbers and keeping us in the black. You have a love for people and the summer you will teach me all the tricks and we will crush this candy apple business together. Hi, there. Thank you. Goodbye. Great job. Hey, Carly. OMG, girl, what you doing, grading papers? Grading papers, yes. I'm so glad that you finally found out I had been bursting inside to tell you. Somehow the whole world knew before I did. How did you feel, are you going to reach out to him? No, I think I would rather move to the desert and become a monk. What do they call a female monk? I think it's a monkette. No, I don't think that's it. Doesn't deserve me thing but doing need to remind you of how much you makes in a week? Do I need to remind you that he stomped on my heart on national TV. Don't have a come back for that. He deserves to sleep with the fishes. Looks like you broken axle, friend. Yes, a lot of potholes in this part of Colorado. Come in. Hanna, can you come outside? There's something that you should see. What is it, dad? I just think that you should come outside. Hey, Hanna. Maybe we should all go - No. At least she didn't break out the bear gun on you. No. Seems that she has retreated into her bunker, you could send up some smoke signals outside her window. Or, I could take a message. If I told you why you I was here you would want to break out the bear gun. It's really none of my business. I'm just going to head out. Thanks again for helping me out back there. Where you going? To a motel outside of town. We call that the bedbug in. How are you going to get there? I will just walk. You can stay here in our guestroom. I couldn't possibly accept. Welcome to the guestroom. That works, thanks. Cute. Hanna. No. But - You survived the night, I see. I still need to talk to her. Trust me, she's her mother's daughter. You would have better luck getting a hearing-impaired yak to talk. What are your plans for the day? Find mechanic, maybe get some work done in a coffee shop. No fancy Wi-Fi coffee shops in this town. Come on, let's get your prince mobile towed. Can I put my pants on first? Where are my pants? Hey, Hanna. Hey. She speaks. You are still here. If you want to talk, let's walk. Hanna, I need you to know that the decision I made on the show was misguided, or wrong, stupid. So many levels. Thank you for saying that. It doesn't really matter now. I assume that you heard Kelcie and I broke up. Apparently only lost civilizations have not. The truth is, Kelcie and I were never really a couple. After I proposed she went back to California, I went back to Denver, and we spoke maybe once a week. It was weird. Don't forget stupid. I heard you mention to stupid earlier. Right, and stupid. And I totally let Tyson play me. What you mean? Before the proposal ceremony Tyson read me something like a transcript of a conversation you had with your dad. He said that you were worried that we could never be a couple because we come from such different worlds. I let him get into my head and create doubt, with my feelings for you. I did say that. But it sounds like he left out the part where I said that I was falling in love with you and I hope that you would choose me. I'm so sorry that I fell for that. You also probably heard that after the finale millions of your fans were so upset with me that they organized a boycott of my company. After about a month, my sales have bottomed out. I did not hear that. Hanna's Knights did this? Wow. Yeah. Yeah. But, what does that have to do with the two of us? Well, a few days ago, my board called an emergency meeting to give me an ultimatum, either a fixed a bad press from the breakup actually, both breakups with Kelcie and us. Or, I'm out as CEO. That's terrible. But, the cat is kind of already out of the bag, isn't it? Well, there might be one way to save it. You are just going to hate me all over again. What is it? A creative solution was pitched to me by head of marketing, I hated that the second I heard it but as crazy as it sounds it might just be the only way. Now you're starting to scare me. Hanna, I came here today to ask if you want to get engaged. Not a real engagement. Like a fake engagement. Let's call it an engagement of convenience. Convenient for who? Hanna, the hope is that your grassroots army will be so in love the idea that we are back together they will And we will definitely make it worth your while. We will keep up appearances for a month maybe two until another new crazy you cycle comes around. If you want, we can go back to our normal lives. Will, let me think about that. No. Happy Saturday, Hanna, dear. There's nothing happy about it he is still here. I'm still sort of stranded here. Why not call an Uber? You can afford a 200-mile fare. Actually, I don't think I can right now. So, Jim, you said you are originally from Minnesota? A tiny town called Embarrass, you can still sort of hear that Minnesota dialect every now and then, don't you know? The next time the Vikes are at Mile High Stadium, we should go to ag ame. What are you two, best friends now? Guess what Will and I are doing later? Are you getting BFF bracelets? We are going flyfishing. Wait, this one is going flyfishing? My family didn't do much camping going up, but I went real fishing once. Flyfishing can't be that much different. Did you bring your rubber pants? They are called waders, dear. I got extras. What about the shop? I will just open up later after we get back. Speaking of, can you drop by this morning? The mailman is delivering a crate of fudge at 10am? I won't be there. If it keeps me from hearing details about your trip I will just lock myself in the fridge with it. It is the fish that can swim away, not your line. Watch my hands. Just do what I do. Doing fine for now. How does it feel? Pretty good, kind of amazing. You know, I used to think that it was called flyfishing because you use buzzing flies as bait. And I wondered how you got them on the hook. So glad we are using live bait. Hanna ever tells you that she's good at this? She throws the fish back of course she loves all God's creatures great and small Everson she was a little girl. What about the hook in their mouth? She figured she's training them to avoid humans the next time around. Speaking of Hanna, I'm not surprised that her reaction to seeing you. I've never interfered too much in her personal life, I always figured that life is the best teacher. Kind of like the fish with the hooks in their mouths. Exactly. I don't suppose you ever heard any of our conversation? Not much. I won't get to into it but, I'm weeks away from getting ousted out of my own company because of my mistakes. And, I proposed a situation to Hanna that she couldn't have possibly accepted. So, was this strictly a business trip? The truth is, Jim, I never stopped caring for your daughter despite everything that happened. She is the best woman, the best person that I've ever met. It makes me sick what I did to her. Will, I know Hanna better than anyone. Ever since my wife passed away, she and I have been as close as two peas in a pod. She is strong, she is independent, she does not care about money, prestige. If she's closed the door, it's unlikely that she'll reopen it. But, she did care for you once. If she were to reopen that door, she would want to know that it was because you are interested in getting to know her, without any cameras around, without the pressures of your business. You got one. Oh, I think I've got one. It is a monster. It is fighting me. It that's a good one. That has got to be a record. I can't believe he actually thought you were going to fall for that stupid idea, where is he? He is not here is flyfishing with my dad. Preppy boy is flyfishing? We are talking about Will Preston? Yes, Will Preston is currently wearing rubber pants. Nice. I need to run to the store for my dad, you want to come with me? I am in. So he said that he would pay you for this engagement plot. Is a great deal all I have to do is sell my immortal soul. Tell me, what is the downside to this plan? Did you not hear anything I just said? Think about it, you are just dating Will without cameras rolling, others interfering and in a few months, you can collect your fee and go your separate ways or Or what? Or, could be a lot of things. Maybe you two will find eachother again in the midst of all that. Not a chance. Where is the fudge? Let's get in the fridge. What is it? I knew that it was bad but not like this. Grab the handle. Open the handle. What? This one right here. There you go. Sounds like your car will be ready for a few days. Hey there. Hi. My board is chomping at the bit to get me to the office, so they are sending me a car tomorrow. Can we talk? Me? Yes. Yes, sure. Nice boots. Thanks. Did you catch anything? Believe it or not, a 5-inch trout. He said it's on the small size. It is. I felt like quite the outdoorsmen. I bet you did. So, what did you want to talk about? The engagement plot. Engagement plot. Look, I'm sorry again for springing that on you. I want in. What? Are you sure? I'm shocked. I mean I'm thrilled but, what made you change your mind? I have my reasons and just to be clear they don't have anything to do with you or your fishing skills or us. Fair enough. I cannot begin to tell you how much I appreciate this. The school is on fall break now so if you need me in Denver, I can come with you. With a happy face, even if it is all an act. I hate the way that that sounds but all right. As always. Okay. Seems like just a few days ago I was seeing you off for the filming of that show. Fortunately, this time is just a few weeks. I don't really understand your reasons for doing this but, I'm so proud of you, whatever happens. Just promise me you will guard your heart this time. I promise. I will take good care of her, Mr. Knight. You better. Hi, I am Leo Wills driver. You look beautiful. I'm sorry just trying to get to character. You remember Leo, my personal bodyguard. To protect you from all the terrorists and assassins. Don't forget the Internet trolls, all the cyber bullies yet to protect him from all threats foreign and domestic even the ones in his head. That was a good one. Thank you, Leo. Watch you hands and feet. I love you, dad. I love you too. So nothing to worry about but, Doug, head of marketing may have leaked it to the press that we are engaged. Oh, yay, in ambush, lucky me. When we get to the city. There might be a little media presence. Media presence. Is that code for paparazzi? Nothing gets past her, eh, boss? Nope. Nope. Hanna, we are here. Am I dropping you both off at the condo or is Hanna staying at the mining exchange? Hotel, no my condo is fine. No, I'm not staying with you at your condo. I will just give you to a minute. It's not like that. It's a four-bedroom condo. We won't even be on the same floor. Besides, we have to make this look real, remember? And have photos published of us walking out of your condo in the morning. I may be selling my soul, but I'm not chucking my moral code too. Okay. The mining exchange it is. Thank you. Lord have mercy. You guys are like Kim and Kanye. We knew it would be like this we might as well get it over right? I like this one, boss. See, he likes me. Are you sure? No, I'm ready. I just saw Harry and Megan eating at a restaurant down the road why don't you go harass them? Justin Bieber too. Hanna, will, can you confirm the rumors that you are back together? We are back together we are engaged, and we could not be happier. Wow. That was something. I don't think we even kissed like the on the show. Don't get used to it. You are awesome out there. And you are really good at - Faking it. I was going to say making people fall in love you. There is my million-dollar couple. Sorry about that we had to get the word out. Hanna, I want you to meet - Doug Perry Hanna. Chief marketing officer of Glamour cosmetic and Will Preston's perpetual pain in his side. Pleasure to meet you, Hanna. Very nice to meet you. So, you are the genius behind the engagement plot? Is that what we are calling it? I like it. And humbly, yes of course. I am a genius. Humble is not a word of ever associated with you. Anyway, I'm sure Hanna is tired and ready to get checked in. Already taken care of. Hanna, you will be staying in the executive suite. Thank you very much. You are welcome. He seems fun. Well, I will apologize in advance for whatever he does. But he promises that our little stunt saves the company. I hope that it does more than that. Everything okay? Yes. It's nothing, I need to worry about. If you say so. See you soon. She is really being a team player, isn't she? She's good people, boss. She is one of those people who would give her right arm to help anyone. Should probably give up her Taylor Swift tickets and go see her nieces trombone recital. That is oddly specific, Leo. And yes, she is just like that. How do you know so much about her, anyway? You think that I was just a casual watcher of the price of love, boss? I'm a student of human nature and social media culture. And now, the world loves that girl. Only an absolute moron would break her heart. Guilty as charged, my friend. So, what are your intentions with her? Who are you, her dad? I'm just trying to make sure that you treat her right. She doesn't deserve to be put through the wringer again. I don't plan on letting that happen. If I'm ever lucky enough to win her heart back, I will never let her go. My man is still in love with Hanna. Hanna, Will, it is my honor to host you on such a wonderful occasion. Well, thank you for having us. I have here some extra special pieces that I picked out that I'm sure the lucky lady is going to love. And obviously Glamorous is paying for it so pick any ring that you like. Are you serious? The most expensive piece of jewelry I own is from the countyfair swap meet so. So, I can try this? As you wish. Wow. That is sparkly. No more than 25 of these pieces were handmade by famed designer Javier. A ring like this would make you the envy of queens and luminaries, worldwide. That's very fancy. I like it it's just a little bit to Bridgerton for my taste. Can I try this one? As you wish. That's a very special shape. I like it. It's an original. But the diamonds they are just a little bit too pokey. Pokey? They just poke at you. Yes. I just think that the good thing about this ring is I wouldn't have to carry pepper spray I can just use it as a weapon. Not this one. No problem. I have some more pieces. Wait a second, can I try this one? This one is beautiful. This looks just like my mom's engagement ring. The one that my dad got her. She was going to give this to me when I graduated high school but we had a tough year financially, so she sold it. I'll take it. This one is really special. Hanna, unfortunately we can't go with the ring that looks like your mom's. This one? Why not? Well, Doug... already signed a promotional contract with the store. I'm really sorry. Okay. Look, I get it. My inexpensive reminds me of my mom ring wouldn't wow the world in quite the same way. I'm eally sorry. Can I take you to lunch? I know a place that is sure to be with no cameras no crowds, no media. I promise. All right, sure. Maybe I could order a modest salad or something. You know the spot. You've got it, boss. I hope that the food is okay. This place is a little empty. That would be my fault. I reserved it for just the two of us. And fizzy water. Very fancy. I'm sorry about the ring earlier I should've known that we need to keep up appearances. Do you ever wish that we could have met under different circumstances in the real world without cameras and producers lurking over our shoulders? Without the show we would never have met. So that's an impossible question to answer. That is right. The real world ideals are fancy to. You know most girls fantasize about their dream wedding and I never did that. My dream was to live a quiet and meaningful life. And I was doing that until I signed up for a reality show and now I'm so kind of social media celebrity drinking very fancy water in a private restaurant. Can I ask you a question? I hope it's not too personal. Sure. How did you end up on the Price of Love? The more I get to know you the more you seem like the type of person that would laugh at the reality dating show not participate in one. And I mean that is a huge complement. Well, to be honest, my friend Carly signed me up without telling me and I was so mad at her at first and then when the producers called they were so eager to meet me so I think I just got caught up in the excitement of it all. That's understandable. And is called the price of love and I believe that love is what makes us real so I think I thought I could make some kind of impact or something which sounds so silly now. That doesn't sound silly at all, Hanna and if anyone can make that type of impact, it's you. I think you did. Look at Hanna's Knights. What about you? How did you get recruited? Doug had some contacts at the network and he thought it would be good for glamorous, free exposure. And I just blindly went along with it. You didn't audition? You didn't win them over with your charm? No. I never envisioned my life would be like this either. When I launch my company out of business go-ahead a small amount of money saved up and a lot of arrogance to think that I could make a difference. I had a vision that I could build a business where we could source fair trade products out of small villages and developing nations, helping people while growing something meaningful. After a couple of years, we had some lucky breaks, great press and we just blew up. Glamorous came along and offered to merge with us, make me their CEO. I'm ashamed to admit that I lost sight of my first love for this business. Helping people took a backseat to building my own wealth and brand. Could you ever go back to your first love? For business? After everything that's happened, I just think it's too late. Too late has never been in my vocabulary. I have this annoying habit of seeing the world through rose colored glasses. I don't give up on people. I just choose to see the good in them, I think it's a better way to live. That's not annoying. It's beautiful, actually. You have an annoying habit of doing things that make me warm up to you. If that is so, I'm not apologizing for it. You have been ducking my calls, brother. I've nothing to say to you. That's not what the network contract says. My lawyers have poured over that deal and my obligations ended after the show aired. Tell your lawyers to take another look at the contract. It gives us a right to derivative content for up to 18 months after the first episode is shot. Listen, I just want to do an interview with you, Hanna. Sit down with Diedre, talk through some things you never have to see us again. Why? In case you forgot, you manipulated me into choosing Kelcie over her. That was an error in my judgment. I own it, I wasn't into the whole holy Hanna thing, faith, love, and joy. But let's give the audience what they want. Wow, you just ooze sincerity. That's rich coming from you, Mr. GQ Smooth. What is that supposed to mean? It means is not too hard to put two and two together to realize this whole engagement thing is a sham, right? You are trying to save face, fix tanking sales because you chose to walk away from America's sweetheart. I'm done with it. I wonder what hand is going to think when we blow this up on Twitter, the fake engagement. That's what I thought. Give me a call, let's schedule this out and we can share this love story with the world. I think it would be good. So, there is something I need to tell you. Well, two things, actually. What is it? First off, my parents really like you and they are thrilled that we have reconnected. But, the problem is, they sort of think that we are - Do they think that we are actually engaged? Yes. No, how could you not tell them? They found online before the chance to tell them what was going on and they just love you so much I just didn't have the heart to break it to them. I don't know if I can do this. Spinning the truth of the cameras is one thing but your parents? As soon as I get a chance, I will tell them what's going on, I promise. Don't mind me. Like my man Billy Joel says, we didn't start the fire, but best be sure that you don't get burned by it, girlfriend. Yes, what other bombshell you going to drop on me? You know what, it's no big deal. Okay. So nice to meet you. Thank you for having me. Our daughter-in-law. You look good. Let me take this for you. Thank you. Yes, make yourself at home. Just so stunning. It was his gift to us for our 25th anniversary. And your room is already upstairs and after you unpack, I have a little surprise for you. Hey, when are you going to tell your parents? Your mom is giving me gifts. I will, as soon as you guys get back from the surprise. This surprise could get a little awkward with them not knowing, Will. She's probably just going to take you to tea with bunko bodies. Bunko? I have no idea. Hi. So, this is actually a two-part surprise. You can come in now. Dad. Oh my goodness. Surprise. So shocked I never would've guessed at this. So that nice man that works with Will what is his name? Doug, thought you may want some moral support so he asked if we could include you in this weekend getaway for you to. Thank you for inviting us. I have been dying to see the two lovebirds getting along. Are you two girls ready for the second part of my surprise? Is it bunko? Oh, no, it's way better than that. Oh, my. What on earth are we doing here? Bunko doesn't sound so bad now, does it? Thank you. So beautiful. Hanna, my heart is crying happy tears. What am I supposed to do now? I'm not sure but I think you're just supposed to go with it. Look, Hanna this engagement might not be real, but when I see you in this dress, it feels more real than anything that I saw on TV. But if Cinderella got broken up with bite Prince Charming and then she had to pretend to be engaged to him so she could save his kingdom - But in this case, Prince Charming is still in love with you. Really? I'm just so confused. How could I have moved on from him so quickly and feel like I'm falling in love with them at the same time? Who cares if this is a fantasy. It is okay to be princess for a day. This is your moment, get the dress, treat yourself, don't worry about what happens next. That is a really irresponsible way to live. And I'm going to give it a try. Oh, my goodness look at you. I just have to say, Harrison and I were so thrilled when we found out that Will had reconciled with you. Now, don't tell Kelcie this but, we knew that she was never right for him. You are always our favorite. So, we would like to treat you to the wedding dress of your dreams. What you think, Hanna? She is so excited that she is speechless. Hey. Oh, my. She bought you a wedding dress. Yes. And I didn't know how to say no. I don't know much about these but that looks really expensive. I stopped counting at four zeros. What are we doing here? I don't know. But this is all really overwhelming. It's going to be okay. All right? We are going to get through this, together. I'm sorry. No, I shouldn't have. It's just yeah. Hanna, I have one more thing that I need to tell you. It's what I was going to tell you earlier in the car but, I kind of chickened out. What is it? Tyson's Sloan paid me a visit. And he said that we are contractually obligated to do an after transaction interview for the network. Wow. So much for princess for the day, ha? What? Nothing. I just have to keep playing the part. He said just one more interview and then he is done with us. I just need to call and let him know when we are ready to schedule. Call him now. Let's get it done as soon as possible. Okay. Thank you for being such a trooper, Hanna. I know this isn't easy. Sit here. That's the camera. So lovely to see you both again. Are you ready for this? What I guess you're both pros by now. For better or worse. Okay, everyone, settle let's begin. Camera rolling, speeding, queue Deidre. Five, four, three, two, one. Welcome to a special edition of the Price of Love after the transaction. Several weeks ago Will Preston and winner Kelcie Chambers shocked the world by announcing that they had broken off their engagement. Soon after, we were thrown for another loop when we learned that Will had secretly reconciled with Hanna Knight, the season three runner up and that they were now engaged. Thank you for joining us today, Hanna, Will Glad to be here Thank you so much for having us. Will let's start things off with the one question that is on everyone's mind. Sure. Bring it on. What really happened between you and Kelcie? Well, Deidre, Kelcie is a wonderful person and we'll always have a great friendship. But after several months of getting to know one another a little bit better, I think that we both had realize that friendship is all that it was. Hanna, you were far and away our most popular contestant on the price of love. Media to express their displeasure that Will chose Kelcie over you, how did you ever find the courage to forgive Will for breaking your heart on national television? It is true that Will did hurt me deeply. But my dad has always said that holding a grudge is like drinking poison and expecting the other person to get sick. So, as soon as we wrapped up the show I went home and I just immediately threw myself into everything that I love which is teaching fifth graders, spending time with my dad and my friends. We are here today and just getting back into a peaceful and quiet life. It didn't take that much time before I was able to gain some space and perspective. I forgave Will in my heart very quickly. Afterwards I took some time just to reflect on the show and while I would never want to go through any of that again, there was something real that came from it and that is my love for you. It seems to me that your love is as strong as it was on the show. If not stronger. The producers of the show decided that it would be unfair to the audience if they didn't include everyone's perspective in this complicated love triangle. What is that mean? What do you mean, love triangle? We are thrilled to have a special guest join us for our conversation ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Kelcie Chambers. Thank you for joining us, Kelcie. Are you kidding? I wouldn't miss this chance to share my truth with the world. And, finally get some closure from this guy. You don't need closure, Kelcie, in case you forgot, you broke up with me. Agree to disagree there, Will. So, Deidre, there is a rumor about Hanna and Will that I would like to clear up. Along with my 3 million+ followers. Whatever rumor you heard is news to me, Kelcie but, when has that ever stopped you from speaking your mind? You know me so well, Deidre. Well, here is what I heard about hunky Will and holy Hanna. These two are faking their engagement. Some kind of plot to save Will's business. That is an enormous accusation. Will and Hanna, is there any truth to this? I feel that relationships are very complicated. It is true. We are partnering in a business venture together that's going to look very good for my company. But, also in love. We are very much in love. I'm so sorry, I know Will better than anyone so, I can tell when he is spinning the truth. Do you want to talk spinning the truth, Kelcie? Unlike what you have been telling everyone, you broke up with me not on a phone call, not even over a text, but to your 3 million+ followers, on social media. Without even talking to me first after ghosting me for weeks. My company was struggling. You suddenly realized I might not be your golden goose egg. How dare you say that? We had - Stop it, both of you. I'm not going to bend the truth anymore. Will and I did come up with a plan to pretend that we are engaged. He needed to save his company and I needed extra money to help my dad keep his store open. And, we wanted a good story for why we were working together. And I'm really sorry, dad. I would do just about anything to help you. And, to Will's parents I am so sorry for deceiving you. I am as much to blame for all of this. I could've said no to the crazy idea. And to all of my supporters, and friends, to Hanna's Knights, I'm really sorry for letting you down. This did start out as an engagement of convenience and for a moment or two, it was more than that. But I should never have let it go this far. I'm sorry. Please forgive me for getting your hopes up that we could actually make this work. I now realize that this is not, it's not a real love story. This is just a dream inside of the fantasy inside of some kind of reality show. There is not any reality in that. I'm a schoolteacher from Lark Springs, Colorado. And perfectly fine with that. So, I'm going to get back to my real life and I hope that you can get back to yours too. I'm ready to take this mic off. Hanna, wait. That's a cut. Nice work, boss. Congratulations on the interview of a lifetime and for wrecking the lives of two really nice human beings. You must think that I'm so foolish. Hanna, any dad in the world would be lucky to call you his daughter. But you should've told me why you are doing this. I could've saved you the trouble. But the shop, I saw all of those bills. Remember what mom always said? Where God guides, he provides. Even Sweet Knights has to close, I'll be okay. You need to focus on your life. Don't worry about me. Yeah, like that's ever going to happen. I'm just so embarrassed. I mean, I made a fool of myself on national TV. Not one time, but twice. What kind of idiot does that? Sweetheart, why waste a single second caring about the opinions of people that you'll never meet? We live, we learn. We do better next time. That's the way that the Knights have always lived our lives. Besides, I've never been prouder of you than watching you in that interview. You are proud of me? This upside-down world needs more people like you. You told the truth. You admitted your mistakes. And you showed compassion to others. What better way to live your life? But what about the shop? What if it has to close? It will all work out. One way or the other. We can't let tough times define us. We get to choose how we will respond. And I will respond by doing more flyfishing. And volunteering at church. And most important, spending as much time as I can with the sweetest Knight of all, you. Thank you for being my daddy. Best job in the world. Look, about Will. Maybe he was right for you. Maybe he wasn't. In any case, you're going to be okay. Yeah. Whether you get married one day and give me half a dozen grandkids, or whether you choose to carve out a different path in your life, I'm excited to see what God has planned for your future. I love you, dad. I love you too, sweetheart. I hope you all can understand why I'm doing this. Are you sure about this, Will? I've never been more sure about anything in my life. Will, I know we haven't always seen eye to eye on things but, none of us ever wanted it to come to this. You know, I started my business career from a place of truth, and I let it get away from me. This is the only way I know how to help glamorous find itself again. Better or worse. Where to now, boss? We are going shopping. Can I have one of those soft pretzels? You know it. Thank you for coming in, Father Randy Sorry. Hello? Hi, Hanna. Hi. So, I promise that I would just show up again. Without calling first. Okay. Look to your right. Can we talk? Yes. I thought you might like to know that I resigned as CEO of glamorous cosmetics. I'm sorry that it came to that. Don't be. It's the best decision I've made in a long time, it had run its course, it's time for me to move on. To make a long story short, I cashed in some stock, left with a nice golden parachute. But, in the settlement I asked for a specific amount of money. The same amount of money that I used to launch my startup company out of business school. Why would you leave so much on the table? I wanted to do over. Do you want to sit? Yes. Hanna, I would really like to invest some of my settlement in sweet Knights, help you in your dad out with the store. I can't ask you to do that. You are not asking, I'm offering. That is incredibly generous, I don't know what to say. Just say yes. No strings attached; you can even tell your dad that the money came through anonymously. And, if you want, say the word, and I will be out of the picture. I don't want that. Hanna - I think that that's the most kind and compassionate thing that you've ever said. And, it's everything that we didn't have on the Price of Love. I never belonged in reality TV and I certainly didn't belong in your world. I was just a big imposter there. Hanna, we were all imposters. You are right, it wasn't real. None of it was real. Except for one thing. Do you remember what you told me about love? When we first met? That love is what makes us real. It's the cure for everything in the universe. Most of us just run around looking for anything to fix our problems, money, fame, reality TV show. It's taken you all this time to realize that. My mother's little ring. You remembered. True love is what makes us real. What is happening right now? I want to do this for real this time. The right way. If you will have me. I love you, Hanna Knight. Will you marry me? Yes. My man. I love you. I love you.