Transcript for Blast (1997) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (slow ominous music) (loud thuds) (ominous music) - [Agent] We've just received word from Vienna that there has been an explosion at the UN facility. It occurred as the elite European security team led by Colonel Max Leo attempted to rescue the hostages. Terrorist leader Omodo Kelal is believed to have escaped during the attack. Casualties are believed to be high with Colonel Leo among the critically injured. (melancholy music) - [Anchor] The president is scheduled to inaugurate the competition. (light solemn music) - [Anchor] Security is tight in light of fears of terrorist attempts to disrupt the games. The mayor has gone on record as saying "There'll be no Munich here in Atlanta." And security is particularly tight as the president and the leaders of 20 nations gather here to commemorate the start of the game with a summit appeal. (ominous music) (faint groaning) - And you will proceed to the security checkpoints and get your clearance. That's a little bad just like this one. And then you'll report to your designated stations. At all times, remember, for the next 16 days you are representing the city of Atlanta and the United States. Now there are television crews everywhere so I don't want any problems. The eyes of the entire world are on us. Courtesy and efficiency ladies and gentlemen, that's what it's all about. Any questions? - Exciting isn't it? - Okay, if there's no questions, let's get to work. - You've got to be excited about this Jack, we get to watch the game! - No we... We get to clean the game's toilets Bena. It's not like we're in the $1,000 seats. - It's once in a lifetime Jack. Even the President of the United States is gonna be there. My kids can't wait to hear about it. Maybe I get my picture taken with someone famous! - [Jack] No you know you won't Bena. - You don't fool me Jack. I've seen the way you've been hanging around the swimming practices. - Yeah well, my ex-wife is the assistant coach on the swim team. - Wow, a games coach! You've gotta be excited about that! - [Jack] Oh yeah. - [Man In Blue] It's just the keys sir. - [Guard] Keys are the only metal, he's clear. (ominous music) - I've located the explosives. (suspenseful music) (loud beeping) (melancholy music) (loud rumbling) (ominous music) - [Security] Janitorial staff's arriving. Be sure to scan the driver's badge. (ominous music) - Where's your cane? - [Jack] Oh I forgot it. - This doesn't have anything to do with seeing your ex? - Diane and I have been apart for a long time. I'm fine with that. I don't wanna see her. - She might be impressed that you're getting it together after prison and rehab. - She's not the type to think that a work furlough program is getting it together. - You two broke up because she had a good job and you didn't. - You are nosy Bena. - I'm a mother, so shoot me. - Okay, open the door. - Opening the door. (loud buzzing) (ominous music) - Cheer up coach, we'll kill 'em. - [Coach] Yeah. - You were sure back at Barcelona. Must be tough to be coaching a bunch of prima donnas instead huh? - Thank you. - Wow, sure is a lot of security. (ominous music) - [Security] Swim team coming through for practice. - We were two totally different people. She was a champion I was more interested in what it took to be a champion. I wanted to own a gym, she wanted her face on a cereal box. We didn't have a lot of common you know? - So that's it? - Yeah. After I hurt my leg and loss of gold, I pretty much self destructed. Then we had even less in common. - You ought to forget about what she'll think and go and say hi. - I don't think so. - Jack. We all do the best with what we've got. If she's a smart lady she'll see that. I'll get this. You're pretty good on one leg. - Let's go. Come on let's move. Come on, we're gonna have to hustle up. We only have an hour before the next team gets the pool. - Why do they bother? We're sweeping. - Not if you don't get your butts in gear. Here take mine. (faint beeping) - [Guard] IDs check out. - Good luck coach. - [Coach] Thanks guys. - Opening the door. (loud beeping) (loud buzzing) - Hey Moses, that news crew is still inside. Isn't that supposed to be a closed practice? No press. - I'll send someone to clear them out. (ominous music) - Sure wish I had tickets. - Everyone else does. - But I'm afraid I'm gonna have to go in anyway my friend. - Not without a ticket pal. (loud hissing) (ominous music) - Moses. Unlock the doors. - 7:49. 7:48. - Moses. We're in, cut the communications. (faint beeping) - Communications cut. Clear. 6:17. Practice pools all set. (loud beeping) - [Terrorist] Motion triggers activated here. Locking up. (loud beeping) - [Terrorist] It's clear in here. - [Male Coach] Hustle up, we don't have much time. - You're gonna go into the first door on your left up here. You ready? - Oh yeah. - [Male Coach] You all right? - Go on ahead Bill. - [Bill] Is that... - Yeah. - You holler if you need anything okay? Jack. (slow paced music) - Hi. - How's your leg? - It's okay. It's hell on my ballroom dancing. - I tried to find you later. - I didn't want to be found. - I guess I handled things badly. - Yeah well, you had your career priorities that you needed to take care of. - You know we've had this conversation before. I've got to go. - Oh well that's something new and different. - Would it have been so difficult to support me a little bit more? - Oh come on Diane, you didn't need my support. Everybody supported you, you had it all. - You're wrong Jack. - Try again. And get that chip off your shoulder next time. - [Jack] Shit. (slow paced music) - Come on ladies, let's go. (ominous music) - Everything's looking good Omodo. Your boys on the construction crew did the job. Team CD and K have completed rigging. South side secure. - Gather the police and staff. - Hey boys and girls, captain just showed. He wants everyone to assemble in meeting room A, pronto. (ominous music) (faint laughter) - [Officer] So where do you think the captain is? There's nobody here. - [Terrorist] Palms up. On your knees, get down! - [Moses] The upper levels and roof have been rigged. The practice pool is ready, so is the TV news crew. Everyone's moving into their positions. Just give us the go-ahead. - Are we secure? - All entrances and exits have been sealed. - And how is the rest of the list going? - [Moses] Just two janitors to go. They're the only ones not on radio. - Good. (loud gunshot) Excuse me gentlemen. - [Terrorist] On your face. Too slow! (loud gunfire) - [Moses] What about the two janitors? Do you want me to send someone after them? - That's not important for now. Finish placing the explosives and motion sensors. Four minutes! Move gentlemen! Timing! Timing! (ominous music) - [Diane] 20 minutes left, let's go. - [Bill] Frankly Liz, I've done a superb job of getting them to peek at just the right time. - Is the injury to Carol Taylor serious enough to consider having her sit out the 100? - We're not saving her for the 200, the 100 is her strongest event she could be swimming. Excuse me. - Bill. Bill. - I'll be right back. - Look, what are you jealous? - I thought there was no press at the practice sessions? - They snuck in sweetie. - It doesn't say a lot for the security around here. - Yeah well... So how'd it go with your ex? Look, this is our big day. Don't let that loser screw it up huh. - He's not a loser. - Yeah, that's why he's a janitor now. - Come on Bill. - Sorry. Look, he just pisses me off. You know how I feel about you. - Okay guys let's go. Come on, let's get started. Swimmers take your marks, we don't have a lot of time here. Let's go! - Hubba-hubba. - [Security] I love this job. (light laughter) (ominous music) - So who's left besides the swim team? - Just two janitors. The one you're watching and a woman. She's about to go into one of the pool offices. Guess who's running intelligence here? Leo. Saw his name on the new manifest. Problem? - No problem. I'm just surprised he's alive. Thought I blew him up. - I heard what he did your operation in Vienna. - He's good. 60 seconds. Leo sends his regards. - [Terrorist] He ruined it in Vienna. - He's not the problem little brother. This time I finish him. - We can talk or we can practice. Come on. - Hey coach! - Freeze! (loud gunshots) (loud screaming) - Get this! (loud gunshot) - Hold still! - Secure the swimmers! - No! - Leave her alone! - Let's go, let's go! - [Bill] Don't kill me! - [Terrorist] Get up, come on, get up! (loud screaming) Lock the perimeter! - [Terrorist] Come on, move ladies! Over by your coach! - [Terrorist] Bring the swimmers here by the coach! - [Terrorist] Move along! (ominous music) - [Terrorist] Secure! - Are you okay? (loud clanking) - What the hell is going on? - [Moses] FBI computer scans will detect us in 30 seconds. (ominous music) (suspenseful music) - [Anchor] The president has arrived in Atlanta. Plans are for a short. - [Terrorist] Sir, you can monitor the local news. - [Anchor] City hall, where he will be met by Mayor Lewis and 20 world leaders. From there, it's on to the stadium for opening ceremonies. - Are we set? (loud beeping) - Go. - [Anchor] Security has been heavy. - [Terrorist] We're secure. - It's time. The alert should be going out. (loud beeping) - Code 72 we have a hot situation at the Aquatic Center. (ominous music) - [Security] Get this on the air now! (faint sirens) - We expect the president over here in an hour. We'll motorcade to the games for the first event. - Security is up and tied around City Hall and all along the venue. - [Female] Good. - You'd better see this mayor. It's going out live all over the world. - Good morning your honor, assembled guests, hello Leo. We have taken over the swimming complex and are holding the American women's swim team hostage. We have rigged explosives at all games venues. I will not fail to detonate these should any action be taken against us. - They're using their own satellite link. (faint sirens) - [Agent] Contingency plans show the swimming complex is too large to take without discovery in time. Entrances have been compromised. - We do this on behalf of the oppressed everywhere It is a protest against the so-called peace gathering of world leaders in your city. - May I have the floor plans please? - [Omodo] The United States and it's powers have exactly 20 minutes to release all political prisoners within their prisons. I will place on the internet details of exactly who is to be released. - Oh, it's an old friend. We meet again. - For every five minutes beyond the deadline, I will make an aspiring young swimmer world famous. (loud beeping) - The website link is www.comefreedom. Remember, explosives are being installed at 47 locations throughout the game's venues. Do not force me to (speaks softly). Stay tuned. - The FBI agent in charge is on his way here. Tactical teams being deployed. - Do as you're told ladies. No excuses, no second chances. - [Anchor] That was a live feed from the practice pool in the games aquatic center. We have no information on who these terrorists are or if there have been any casualties. However, the mention of hostages brings back the terrible memories of Munich. - What I mean is get 'em now, that's right! (ominous music) - Looks can be deceiving. - I know you Interpol guys do things differently, but... - You think Leo's nuts? - Yeah, the guy's creepy. - Well he's always being a little strange. And after Omodo got through with him in Vienna, he got a lot stranger. But so would you if you got blown up and lost half your life. Everyone deals with pain differently. Leo's found his. - Can he still be effective? - Like the terrorists, he is obsessed to the point of insanity. That makes them effective. (ominous music) - [Officer] Activate the manual gate override. - [Moses] FBI recon teams are here. - Here we go. - Once more brother. (ominous music) (suspenseful music) - [Agent] Freeze, FBI! - Omodo Kelal is a pseudonym. We don't know his real name or anything about his background. However, this Kelal, he's committed numerous large-scale operations over the last six years. Until last year Kelal was considered the most skillful terrorist in the world. - What happened last year? - Two operations ended in failure. - So he can be stopped. - By failure I meant his operation did not accomplish his announced goals. But there were many casualties. Particularly last year in Vienna. - And obviously he got away. - His credibility in the terrorist network has fallen. He's considered too reckless and dangerous by many of those organizations. Kelal is looking to reestablish himself here in atlanta. (suspenseful music) - [Agent] Thermal scan shows the whole building is rigged with motion triggers. If anything touches that glass it all goes up. (ominous music) (fast paced music) - [Bena] Hello, hello, hello, hello?! - Got one of the janitors, a black female in hallway C11. She knows about us. - [Agent] In here! Get her, go! (loud gunshots) - [Terrorist] Open the door! (loud gunshot) (loud gunshots) (loud gunshots) - Jack! (loud gunshots) - No camera in the locker room. (fast paced music) - [Terrorist] We've got an open ceiling panel. Looks like he went up. (suspenseful music) We're going up, check that room next to you. - [Terrorist] Got it. (faint gunshot) (loud screaming) (loud thud) - We lost contact with Jules and Ernesto. We're missing someone, but this guy isn't a janitor. (fast paced music) - How are you planning to get out Omodo? - The FBI's patching into the agent in-command. - Where's the janitor? - [Moses] Exiting the women's locker room. And he's armed. - Find him. (ominous music) - [Anchor] Aquatic center. We hope to have a list of those trapped inside. - Let's go. - What are they doing? (loud screaming) - Don't touch her! - Come on, let's go! - [Terrorist] Sit down! (loud screaming) - If you don't mind I'd like to use your EOC. I'd like to listen to a consultant we're working with. - [Anchor] We are getting another live feed from the terrorists in the pool complex. (ominous music) - You're 20 minutes have passed. (faint sobbing) (loud gunshot) (faint sobbing) (loud ringing) - Don't look. Don't look. - You have no time for strategy. Our next showgirl will be on in five minutes. I'm getting bored. I think I'm going to detonate one of my bombs. I warned you. - Bombs at every venue. Is that possible? - Omodo is known for the honesty of his threats. He does exactly what he says. - Mr. Schue. Well can we disarm the bombs? - With the timeline so tight, we don't have the resources to find them all. - [Agent] I recommend we pay up and deal with the terrorists after the hostages have been released. - [Shue] The policy is no deals. - [Agent] Look, there's still a good chance negotiations will free the hostages to end this thing. - Gentlemen, this man has no intentions to let anyone go. It's not his style. - Who's that? - Mr. Leo. Town and terrorist expert friend Interpol. - What do you mean it's not his style Mr. Leo? - He blows up his hostages to cover his escape. He did it in Cairo in 85, in Paris in 90, and last year in Vienna. There is not much chance of saving anyone. - But if he always kills his hostages nobody would deal with him. Now what kind of strategy is that? - [Leo] It's been very effective. - I don't care what he's done in the past. Now this is America, we have to do everything we can to save lives. - He knows how you think. He's counting on it. - Your recommendation Leo? - There is no justice for all. You have to sacrifice a few innocent civilians and kill him. - Shue. - [Leo] It'll save a lot of bloodshed. - Hold on Leo. - The American people will never tolerate it. - I know. We'll continue to try to get them out alive, but Leo's the best at his job. Let him do it his way. Give us your analysis Leo. - Right now this is a diversion. He's after something else. - [Mayor] A diversion? For what Mr. Leo? - I don't know yet. (loud beeping) - Shit. (loud explosion) - God damn it! - What the hell was that? (loud ringing) - The stadium's been blown up. - Is this CT 600? - It's a fission boost. - You know what he's doing? He's pushing the buttons of Atlanta. - What about the options? The negotiations. - He's cut all lines of communication. - [Mayor] Have the assault teams try to rescue the swimmers. - His hostages were never rescued. They died. We should concentrate on all his moves and then when we can go in for the kill. - [Agent] What about the rest of the venues? - The games are over. Evacuate. - I'm moving every officer. I'm going downtown to look for bombs. - What about the president's security? Is he still coming here? - The president refuses to be scared off. He intends to show. Show support for the hostages. - Everybody knows this is an election year. (ominous music) (faint beeping) - [Anchor] The president, aware of the potential threat against him has decided along with the 20 world leaders to continue on to city hall where he will personally take charge of the rescue operation. In a statement at the airport, the president emphasized. - [Jack] Shit. - [Moses] Bomb squads here. - Two minutes before they cut power. Where is the janitor? (ominous music) (fast paced music) - Ground level offices on the east side of the pool. (fast paced music) (faint beeping) (ominous music) (loud alarm) - [Anchor] This is what we know at the moment. - [Terrorist] What's that? - [Anchor] Has been taken over by an unknown number of terrorists. The leader of these. - [Terrorist] Over here! It's alright, I got your back. - [Terrorist] Over here, over here! - Shut it off! - [Anchor] Kelal which translated means dragon fire. Kelal is known to be responsible for at least five other. - Fire alarm will set off in aquatic center. - That could mean there's someone running around free. - Yeah. - [Agent] Casualties at level 10, I repeat, level 10. - Get me information on whoever was in the building. Like cleaning people, anybody. (suspenseful music) (loud gunshots) - Motion triggers set up in a broad perimeter at all entrances and windows. We can't get to the target until neutralized. Confirmed. Triggers are tied into the power grid. - Prepare to cut power. (suspenseful music) - Moses, open the door! (loud gunshot) - [Terrorist] I think we hit him! - He's headed for the basement. He's out of camera range. He must have gone into the basement. - Stop him before he reaches the power unit. - [Terrorist] Go around the other way. - [Terrorist] Got it! - This way. (loud grunting) (faint beeping) - [Agent] All teams proceed to disarm explosives. - Get to your positions. - Power cut is imminent. - Ready here. - Do it. - Cut the power. - They're doing it. - Alright. Yeah, that's gonna work. - [Agent] Seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, cutting power. - [Anchor] Other than there are believed to be hostages under Kalels control. (loud clank) (low rumbling) Practice pool complex has been rigged with bombs. - How's the power unit? - [Moses] Power unit still online. - Shit! They still have power. - [Agent] Alright, all teams back off. - I wonder what this is. Basement. (ominous music) - Oh, shit. - [Moses] Got him, he's in the basement causeway. Lost him. I've got blind spots in the base below, limited camera positions. I can't see him, he's out of range. You're on your own. (faint clanking) I'm scanning the basement, but he's not showing up. Checking the pipe rims. I just don't see him. - You sure he's in there? - [Moses] There's only one way in and he didn't use it. - I lost him, help me Moses. - [Moses] Karl's come in the other way. Use the door on your left, you can circle around through the rear rooms. It'll take you back to the entrance. (ominous music) Stop. He's on the other side of the door. Use the entrance to your right. You can circle around behind him. (faint clicking) - [Terrorist] Turn around. Slowly. Who are you my friend? FBI? (loud grunting) Come on, get up. Let's see how this feels! You're not FBI. (loud grunting) (loud gunshot) (loud grunting) (ominous music) - Christ. He got Karl Micheal. He knows we're watching him. He's got one of our headset. Communications are compromised. - Are you sure Karl is dead? - [Moses] Affirmative, a knife got him in the throat. The janitors good. - Access the personnel files. Let's find out who this fucker is. - Give me a minute. - [Anchor] From here it looks like the FBI assault teams are about to make a move. Combat aerial units have arrived above the pool complex. - Okay, the FBI's gonna take them. Alright, when they do, be ready to run. Use the fire exit. There's gonna be a lot of shooting, so just keep going okay, understood? So just stay focused, we can get through this. Now one at a time, move poolside. Slowly okay? Slowly. It's okay. - [Anchor] We've gotten reports of a lot of movement in the downtown area around City Hall. Security units are being removed and redeployed to the various competition venues which are spread throughout the county. Additional military units are converging on sites that are located in the state's outlying regions. The authorities have given us no explanation. However, with the bombing of the stadium. - I can help you with the janitor. His name is Jack Bryant. I know who he is, I can catch him. - And what do you want in return? - You can let me go. - Sorry? - Let me go. - And the rest of your team? - I can't do much for them in here. I'll talk to the FBI for you if you want. - Is he FBI? - No, he's a janitor. I mean he used to used to be an athlete or something. Taekwondo or something. I don't know. So do we have a deal? - We have a deal. - Diane over there, that's his wife. They're separated, but he'll come for her. - Nik. Bring me the coach. (ominous music) - Now listen to me, I'm gonna create a diversion now alright? - [Nik] Let's go. - Be ready. (faint sobbing) You son of a bitch. - Yes. - So can I go? - That was the deal, Bill. Go. - Bill. No! (loud gunshot) (loud screaming) - Exciting isn't it? - Okay, keep me just let them go. - You're not good television. (loud buzzing) - Files are coded. Do you want me to keep trying? - Forget about the files. Just initiate the escape protocol. - Copy. Shit, I lost him. Son of a bitch knows where the cameras are. (loud thud) - Hey asshole. It's over. - Say hello to your wife Jack. (loud scream) The doors are locked. They've been rigged with bombs, there's no way out. - What makes you think I want to leave. I'm coming for you. - No. Jack! - Jack! - Stop it! - I'm busy right now Jack. Take your time. (loud gunshot) (loud gunshots) - Mr. White, go to the security room and kill that bastard. - No, please wait! - Bring me another. - [Nik] Move, come on! Let's go! Out of my way! On your feet. Let's go! - It's okay. It's okay. (loud sobbing) (fast paced music) - Faster my dear, you're almost there! (loud gunshots) (faint ringing) (loud ringing) - Yeah. - Sarah? - Sarah's in deep shit. - Hey! (loud ringing) - Listen, this is Jack Bryant. I'm at the game's Aquatic Center. Terrorists have... Well then why the hell haven't you people done something about it?! - There's a janitor calling out on a cellular phone. They're gonna patch him through. - Who is this? - This is the mayor. - The mayor?! Look, I need the police or the FBI or something. - Police, FBI, we're all here, tell us what you can. - How many are there? - I don't know. But they've got explosives on the doors. - Listen, we cut the power, but our sensors show they have some other power supply, have you seen something that could be it? - Put me into this call. - [Jack] Maybe in the basement there's some kind of power unit. - [Shue] If you cut it, we could defuse the bombs. - [Jack] All right. - Jack. - Who's this? - This is Leo, I need your help. You need to look around in the basement for anything that could be an escape route. Anything. Air ducts, sewer-- - Forget it. There's no way I can get these hostages out of here by myself. - Jack, this is not your escape, it's for the terrorists. - Well that's great Leo, but how are we gonna get out of here? - Like the FBI said, they'll take care of you. I promise. Now save your batteries and don't forget to call 9-1-1 when you find something. - Christ, to depend on a damn janitor. - We don't have much of a choice do we? (loud ringing) - There's a chance we can get the power shut off. - [PA System] This is a priority one alert. All non-essential security units in the downtown and city hall quadrant will report to the games complex for redeployment. - We could do much worse than Mr. Bryant. - [Agent] Security downtown will be assumed by the secret service and will be controlled and will be overlapped. Security units 881 and 897 proceed to checkpoint Alpha five nine. - The president. Damn! (faint sobbing) - The trouble we terrorists always have with Americans is you're too damn heroic. But as you Americans also like to say, there are many ways to skin a cat. Shh, it's okay, it's okay. - Somebody do something. - We've run out of time. - Since you have no regard for these hostages, I am forced to raise the stakes. If I do not get confirmation of my demands in three minutes I will begin detonating the rest of the bombs. - The president has ordered the demands be met. - [Omodo] There is enough explosive there to take out the - Christ. - [Omodo] 10 mile square area. As I'm sure you already confirmed. We are prepared to die. (loud beeping) - [Terrorist] They've agreed to all your terms, transfers are confirmed, congratulations. - I thank you for your cooperation. Shortly I will inform you of my demands for safe passage. (faint sirens) - [Terrorist] Should I open the escape protocol? - Do it. - [Man At Gate] Copy that. Coming in through the vent. - 10 minutes. (ominous music) - [Terrorist] Sit down! - He's not here. I'll reboot the system. - [Agent] Keep going, keep going. (loud beep) - It's hopeless unless we get that power turned off. - [Anchor] The president has arrived at City Hall where he will confer with the mayor, games officials, and the 20 world leaders. But time is running out. Will Atlanta burn again? (loud gunshot) - Shit. I'm going for the basement. (suspenseful music) - Power's cut. Motion detector are down. Repeat, motion detectors are down. - Son of a bitch did it. We're attempting to disarm every bomb we've located. We just need time now. - Great. - [Leo] The vent. - He messed up your plans didn't he? Go ahead, go ahead! - My dear, such bravery. - Fuck you. (ominous music) - [Agent] Go, move, move, move, move! Come on! (loud crash) (ominous music) (faint beeping) - Leo, I can't find it. - Near the center of the basement there's a drainage vent. You see it? - Oh come on, give me something more. - Right next to it there's a large pumping unit. You can't miss it. - Okay, I got it. There's a grate over it. It's locked but it looks like it's been brushed off. - Is it big enough for a man? - Yeah. - Jack, he'll be coming soon. Is there any way you can keep him busy for like 10 minutes? We're sending in a team. - And how I supposed to keep them busy? - Think of something. You're a resourceful fellow. - You got the wrong guy for the job. - I don't think so. - If you know me you wouldn't feel that way. - I know you had some tough breaks Jack. I know you felt sorry for yourself for quite a while. Now's the time to think about other people. - Okay, it's your party I hope you know what you're doing. - Anyway, this is your only chance to save the life of a president. How 'bout that? - Yeah well that's good Leo, 'cause I'm all you got. - You're not such a bad guy after all. - Yeah sure. - [Agent] Another eight minutes. - Insert that peephole. (ominous music) (loud gunfire) - [Terrorist] Secure the escape route. - [Hostage] Come on, let's go. - Ready, go, go, go! (loud gunfire) Go! (heavy breathing) - Kill her? - Arm the explosives to detonate in five minutes. We're done here, are you in position? - Almost there. The police have cleared out. There's no security around. - Five minutes. - Affirmative. - [Agent] Price, the bombs have gone hot. I repeat, the bombs are hot. - [Terrorist] Bombs are counting down. - 3:40, get the vest. - Go ahead, do it. - We're moving to protect the escape route. (ominous music) Shit, he's at the basement! Let's go. - [Agent] We'll be at the van entrance in 30 seconds. (suspenseful music) - You're all set. - Any more horsepower in this unit? (faint beeping) - Stop! Get away from the door, it's booby trapped with explosives! - Get us out of here! They're coming! - We're working on it. Where are the terrorists now? - We don't know, they've got Coach Colton. - Just relax, everything's gonna be okay. Just relax all right. It's gonna be fine. Some of the hostages are free but we can't get to them. Another four minutes we'll be able to get inside. (suspenseful music) (loud gunfire) - Some of the hostages have been freed but we can't get them out of the building yet. We need four minutes. - Ma'am. The president's in the conference room. He wants a full briefing. (suspenseful music) - I'm coming down Jack! Show yourself. - You've got three minutes before it goes. - Counting to five. One. Two. Three. Four. - No Jack! - Five! - Atlanta and the president are going to be very surprised. The president, 20 world leaders, the games, seems we're in the bonus situations Mrs. Bryant. (suspenseful music) - You've got two seconds, that's all. We're headed for the vent. - [Agent] Team Delta going in the vent entrance. (suspenseful music) - If the FBI disarms the bomb's upstairs, you're the back up Mrs. Bryant. How very sweet. (suspenseful music) - [Agent] Seven. Six. Five. - [Agent] Cutting the first wire. - [Omodo] Activate the base. - One push of the button and off you go. She's all set. (fast paced music) - [Terrorist] Package is in position, we have confirmation. Target is in the building. - Excellent. (faint clicking) (fast paced music) Adios Mr. President. - I got a bad double pot. (loud beeping) (loud gunfire) - [Diane] Jack! (loud gunfire) (loud grunt) - [Terrorist] Get out of here Omodo, I'll go in! (loud thud) (suspenseful music) (loud gunshot) (loud thuds) (loud beeping) - [Agent] 20. 19. 18. 17. 16. (loud beeping) 15. 13. 12. 11. 10. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. - [Agent] Bombs are neutralized, good to go for a tag. - [Agent] Entrance seven secured, bomb neutralized. (loud grunts) - [Diane] No! Jack! No! Jack! - Hold it right there! You're fucking party's over! - [Agent] We're going in! What the hell was that? (loud screaming) (loud gunshot) (fast paced music) - No stop! FBI, stop! On your side. (fast paced music) (loud grunt) (loud beeping) - Get in the water! (loud explosion) - Oh great. Your wife's okay. You okay? Pick up the detonator, come on! Let's go! - So you're a coach? - Yeah. - I used to be a pretty good swimmer. - Yeah? - Yeah. - [Agent] This is the FBI. Everyone in the rural area needs to move into the clear immediately. - He did pretty good, your husband, didn't he? - Yeah he did. (slow paced music) (dramatic music) - Should we try again? - Hey. I'm gonna need some fins pretty soon. (suspenseful music) (fast suspenseful music) (suspenseful music) (loud thuds)