Transcript for Detective Conan: The Bride of Halloween (2022) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- yes I never thought a day like this would come when you finally understand but... decide quickly Does this really work? This is an anonymous report What is cohabitation in Koyasan? sorry Too many things to worry about The ability to plan and execute escape is not enough I don't think he's a man Forehead… One day I will run away what's wrong this you... Don't you want to marry these people? is that so? exist You will continue to protect the five shrines with the rest of your life Do you swear to keep smiling to make yourself happy? Yes take oath mini hagoza you at any time Wataru Support Promise I will love you forever No coffee shop good boy good atmosphere tatami mat continue to investigate What are you doing? Review Prep System Paint Trio Won't Fall What happened Mr. Sato nothing what are you talking about? It's a wedding with cages and booms No This is train like before i didn't tell you anything In fact I'm getting married next time We and Senkun are responsible for the security of the wedding I I don't know if I can suddenly move forward in the land of the north Actually my motivation is that Mr. English Izumi is white I was seriously injured a few years ago and had to quit my job As if I had a fateful encounter in the hospital while I was in the hospital I haven't contacted you since I retired so I'm worried I'm really surprised but Why does wedding insurance go to the compensation family? The whole village received threatening letters active duty He arrested many criminals, many of whom he still holds a grudge to this day In other words it looks upwards I'll do it tomorrow From here on, the upper classes are old We also know what the people arrested by Muranaka looked like I thought if something happened I could handle it but that's ok I haven't carried troublesome water in a long time is it you? If you let him out, I'll come out I guess that's what it says above What's the matter, Detective Sato? Conan nothing Will you see it right away even if I say it? When Takagi-kun fell earlier i saw again Oh That Takagi-kun try grim Reaper I'm a high school detective, Shinichi Kudo, our childhood friend and classmate Going to the Amusement Park with Maori Ran Witnessed the scene of a suspicious transaction by a man in black I'm going crazy I didn't notice another companion approaching from behind I was poisoned by that guy when i wake up my body shrinks If they find out Shinichi Kudo is still alive, they'll aim for his life again People around you will also be affected On the advice of Dr. Agatha I decided to hide my identity someone asked my name once for information on those who call themselves Conan Edogawa She moved into Ran's house whose father was a police detective These are Mitsuhiko it is good My classmates are getting smaller She is a scientist of the Hagiwara organization Apotoxin was developed but murdered her sister Stop the rebellion against the organization where did he take the medicine his body shrunk Now to escape their sight Live at Dr. Agatha's a member of a black organization this person Tooru Amuro but Its characteristics are National Police Agency Security Bureau, which directs the public security police He's a policeman affiliated with the secret organization Zero His real name is Furuya Penetrate inside the organization to understand the inner workings of the organization Detective Sato and Detective Takagi dating Students who graduated from the police academy before... Seems to be a naughty friend being dragged to the edge of the tail one small Talking too much is a spoiler like you always do already Even if the brain gets smaller it's the same forever man some days ago tomorrow Kinpei Matsuda One I think it's in Iwasumi. I want to have a wedding there yes but Detective Sato is beautiful Bridal dresses are specially designed for women Ed seems to be fantasizing about someone's bride loss reduction Is that Kobayashi Masashiro? kofun what did you do with the cosplay for halloween? Hagiwara Manabu Wait a moment I'm about past story sorry Sorry The value of surprising me is like surprising a child Um wound healed Kimi no ball eating belt improvement can shoot super giant balls good point If you adjust the balance between surface elasticity and strength it goes down screwed up yes yes ok I don't remember being in the same county can someone let me go to china Why I'm mad at these people is not a joke Sometimes it's okay to live your age if you don't have to Here are the results of reaching the final in yesterday's training session I just said we were out for lunch Wouldn't it be better to eat together? Yes so serious This is hey it's nothing to do with falling Yes Yes don't go back, okay? uncle it is q early soon I'll go to Dr. Agatha after the on-site examination Then You are suddenly engulfed by the fire in front of you Ogihara just before you picked up the note and told me I never read what was written Didn't we talk about something? thanks for picking it up What kind of person's child can speak Russian? At least it doesn't look like a black organization is targeting Ogihara it cannot be considered an accidental or natural phenomenon It must be a crime against the victim I think the tablet is going to explode Yes Hey, You It seems like there is something in the pocket of the bag to investors looks like a business card heart this i heard a story What's wrong see this Yes Yes Matsuda human body Former Metropolitan Police Criminal Investigation Unit 3 Forced Crime Detective wife of many years ago I was transferred to the First Investigation Section because of one incident. Investigate a series of bombings that occurred Bomb exploded by criminal and lunch The company name written on the business card is offset I'm pretty sure he's only been home for a week or so When and where did the victim get the business card? Seriously, 10,000 copies were written to protest against the police. scary I think it should be up to you so Victim's Unidentified Child Testimony Although I am based on You didn't see the note left by the victim, did you? There's a good chance that Lyme will disappear because of this way of burning The only clue so far is this business card oh dear Mr. Tsuda has such a face real Chiba Kun's infertility occurred after Sanada Kun died in the line of duty Indeed if you cover your eyes you look like Takagi-kun At that time, Takagi sent it back to monitor He looks like Matsuda kept you waiting You worked with Matsuda Kun so tell me you can't remember anything If I give a foreigner a business card I think they will remember it Leave the questions to others Please try to remember that time I thought you didn't notice Everyone must be eavesdropping because it's about you something even without seeing such a thing I remember most of the time I was with my partner Takagi Kun doesn't have the ability to choose a car, a great detective Detective Matsuda, right? bad attitude bad mouth but Yes Please tell me about Detective Matsuda if you can You may think of something while talking Yes Yes 11 years ago he was assigned to writer I remember because it was the first day of the month, the day after Halloween But he was transferred suddenly so I didn't get his business card in time I handed it in on the morning of November 4th I remember this because it was after a holiday Inspector Matsuda passed away on November 7 I have a chance to give my business card to these four people It was a day but on the 4th I was in the office all day I don't know if escort missions are always going back and forth from jail to jail He was a serial bomber until his death The fact that you are chasing The only time I had a chance to hand over my business card was on November 6th However Maybe he gave it to someone after get off work, right? I didn't go back to the dorm for a week after I got home to stay in my bowels Now that I think about it, you must be investigating serial bombings but You don't remember anything special, do you? I'll stop the gas from escaping after the jump Is it the same in the morning? There's a hearing on the case I'm in charge of this afternoon. How to persuade I'm glad you helped me I'm afraid when I jump off in a fright night Hear me out email soon One Her fingertips are more dexterous than hers If she sent it, she'd take it four years ago she was pissed kachoo -san Chome murder Criminal escapes on motorcycle Roger, track This town is not normal The dog's condition continued until around 3pm After that I went back to Yingdamen Hey The house where I collect taxes with Detective Matsuda is separate That where did i go It's past six o'clock This is I just remembered the word year Matsuda Kun has a rosary in his pocket Detective Matsuda I mentioned earlier is writing an email Probably belonged to the bomb squad at the same time as him Seven years ago Kenji Hagiwara It looks like he was killed while dismantling a bomb Like him, November is his death anniversary or the day a serial bomber made contact Detective Matsuda stayed in Benqiu until he got the call That means I can't go to the grave that day He didn't go on the 6th The money of Mt. Hagihara must be outside the temple near Shibuya What happened Mr. Sato is here please Mr. Takagi Even if you go to a temple in Shibuya to pay homage to a colleague's grave I'll be home at six o'clock at night It took too long what happened in those three hours why are you here Yes Yes Yes I remember a lot All four of you said that was Mr. Ogihara's motive Do you remember when you came three years ago? I remember it was around 3pm every year when I came But the number of people visiting Yasukuni Shrine has been decreasing recently for some reason I was alone last year and I don't know the last person's name If I remember correctly I remember his name is Mr. Furuya do something No matter how I search, the result is like this Sukano Furuya is a classmate of the Matsuda group Although he is no longer a cop data should be retained I'm pretty sure you're the mirror of the public safety department at the Metropolitan Police stop investigating I'll handle it, don't talk stupid This is our disease you have no right to say that This is a command not a requirement be here now I'm not kidding I can't accept this tyranny keep cool it's frustrating There's nothing we can do, I'm calm and don't say weird things but He discussed it with me become so hot Is Mr. Matsuda involved in the case? She's not cool and chatty what does she look like you Yes After reading Matsuda's business card, Sato felt as if he couldn't see his surroundings. Shiratori Haruhiro you were As long as she drags Detective Matsuda She said we can't win but this is a mistake I'm the only one who doesn't have a chance is it wrong? but it's useless I'm not However You have also made great progress in your life Legend has it that he risked his life to save many lives Because I'm jealous of that so-called detective No I have nothing to do with that jealous Detective Matsuda If something was stolen you should take it back If you don't hurry, Mr. Sato will fix the koan alone. This is what a young man should do. thank you very much oh dear Because you have a lot of debt holding back your romance rice quality I have no broken bones I think I hit my head hard so I'm going to another hospital tomorrow do a detailed inspection regardless This is Fian I'm Kristin Richard of SE for the Christians in the village Oh Kure City yesterday tour is like that I'm sorry for causing you so much trouble Don't worry, I'm just a little surprised inside I also apologize to you I am alone Your Japanese is good and your parents are French I have been living in Japan since I was 20 First she saw her in the hospital When she was hospitalized with a shoulder injury If I'm in trouble if I lose my medical card He found one day This is a personal name meeting, right? I wonder if that is the case why are you here today I actually asked Detective Murray to speak at the wedding reception. Is it because she is also a big fan of Kogoro Naburi? I can't forgive you at all for saying that you call me Morito my father is not a target trying to protect a child from a bullet explosion truly When the child notices what the victim has lost and tries to pick it up and give it to him the flame has risen the moon is trying to help it Then you rescued that kid right? Kogoro sleeping? wake up Say hello to Detective Mohry for me thank you! very good You can see Shibuya city so I took a look and decided Bad weather and foggy in autumn you can't see clearly If so, why don't you come to visit together? County detectives are putting up Halloween decorations at times like this It's a pity you can't see it even though it's so beautiful All right if you say so i have a little time See you tomorrow my dad is going Mr. Muranaka I used to be a very strict person It seems that the devil's village is scary I can't imagine from the current Mura Nakayama Thanks to Kristen you've become kinder One time has come Will the girls be home soon? which year I live with Dr. Agatha Please stay with my uncle today But I'm fine alone thank you! then be careful are you there? give me something thank you for your hard work e I'll help you too, you don't have to force yourself grim Reaper like those serial bombs The god of death has been flickering lately That's why as you said I'm sorry if it's too hot Mr. Sato as long as i feel this way I was wondering if I should stop being a detective and be Takagi's wife Please don't say such sad words Detective says he will drop the case and resign If it were you, wouldn't you lose Takagi-kun? I don't want to see Mr. Sato lose I love you i'm in love crime car Tokai Wari This is real who is it But that's another story if you could be my bride get off take me to a place like this What are you going to do, Mr. Amro? I finally got to know the foreigner who woke up in front of the Metropolitan Police Department I heard the fire investigation was put on hold Can a person of high power do such a thing? or port Detective Matsuda, who I had lunch with, has something to do with this case. You were in the same class as him at the police academy In addition, Detective Sato and Detective Takagi of the First Investigation Division Considering that the detectives are already on the move After reading this the answer will come out soon intentional to be alone Create opportunities for us to connect who are you than this What is the name of the facility that is the owner of an underground shelter The glass that separates you and me is special tempered glass You won't get hurt even if there's a big explosion where the radio waves are cut off no one on earth knows That collar thing, yes it's a bomb I don't know how to take it apart Mr. President, I know the other detectives want to see me But we can't meet like this If they hurt their faces, the undercover investigation will also be ruined Poirot also had to quit his part-time job I'll tell you everything I know That's why I said I hope you will cooperate with the investigation. and November 6th three years ago Mr. Amuro is in Keiji Matsuda, right? It's been a long time since the four of us met No I thought the four would be a big hit Matsuda is still bad Unable to get out of the event the event is in the expected position How did you feel after moving? neither good nor bad Because I'm going to be assigned to the Metropolitan Police next month. Don't get fired from Senpai for not doing well as a criminal You may be my senior but Ogihara is also happy that Matsuda is here It's ok Promise me to avenge this guy I still can't do it the next day this may happen that's not all Something happened after that why the incident was related to the bomb I think I did a little research and the temple where the cemetery is located is near Shibuya There was a gas leak in a multi-tenant building in Shibuya that day three years ago as you guessed That Let me get off at Shibuya Station I'm sorry I'm going home alone The gift is right in front of the station If you're in a position where you can't really stand out looks like it's a job When I went there with Matsuda to hear the story Apparently someone infiltrated the abandoned building He said he looked like he was going to go on a rampage Even those who were with me before I read this book Before Masuda and I arrived They decided to see how I think I'm going to pass out I'm not Japanese How are you? Yes Yes Yes clam down we are criminals Do you know the location of Pinglu Mountain? possible Russia If you are stopped by the police who got off first show this card continuation or hp Produced by Hachinohe Bijou in the Yamada area of ​​Paris Looks like you still have customers from the chest Unsurprisingly you can get anything public safety to Kobe Bad behind the bomb Likelihood of poor sales If it's this big then it's the first thing you enter into the building even if it can be blocked or cannot be blocked that guy it's here small town Matsuda Okakusa demands that the bomb device be found as soon as possible lay down The first wish is pine taka Polite Funny, funny, I'm defusing bombs out of the way It's supposed to be an unarmed man holding his waist in it Kilometer Zero You were right to bring the door One width stay away from me both of you do not make the bill Are you serious end the universe Hiroshi Maa temporary Nobuo Tsukamoto and this guy's friend may still be take care of yourself too born I'm going to help zero cure i'm not alone I find it difficult to fight alone from here grenade Maybe someone is still running away If you find it, you won't come back to kill me which one Do you have Anjo gum? You can focus by chewing I'm no longer always a team leader after retirement 0 hours Done Chihiro, I've already done it How are you? i was saved hero If you shake or tilt it even a little I think the liquid leaked out I seem to have missed It's good here too, you don't have to worry about finding a way out Leave it to me and let the people around me evacuate But it doesn't matter if IKEA and Shang-hoon leak for other reasons make the surroundings of this building nasty Do you understand it? let's go akuan The leader also came out oh dear I bought it and didn't see it Done Teru Kara Commitments are regular up Remote hiding What should Jinbei wear at such a time? I really got the hang of it thank you Aggie Suddenly remembering what you did in the past I just imitated it and it worked Thanks for joining This is what happened on the last day of acceptance in short That victim must have been However I don't know who that person is The incident was never reported Public safety, ostensibly dealt with in the gas leak, stepped in Planting archives all information What happened to the found bomb? The bomb was taken to a bunker for analysis There will be a mysterious explosion before the ingredients are analyzed All involved are dead It may be the need for investigation so I can only use this time Kazami's contact details Photos and structure of the bomb Mazda defused at the time I sent you pictures of four of my colleagues Morofuku starts on the left Omatsuda I'm Ogihara where is this person Looks like it's time to say goodbye The enemy is more dangerous and tenacious than you think I want you to know I'm stuck on this street pray right The weather was so bad last time I came I couldn't see clearly Hasa go to a store that sells raw meat sorry for being too noisy energetic and cute Not only that, Detective Murray's situation is a waste of consciousness this morning was transferred to a nearby hospital Is it new? I'm Matsui should have been very effective I wonder if this is a room I made a fuss like a child time month and There is also a helipad on the roof After the reception I plan to tour Tokyo with the collar engine I'm very sorry Yes What happened after this i have a meeting Hello Hello What are you doing? I have something my friend would love to give I'm in Shibuya so I hope you can come Although I have a daughter at home let's go Is it very close to here, Fangzi? night transportation promotion I Yes When did you get the strongest now you can I have a map in my mailbox that I will write on paper I'm very sorry Everyone can, I want to say too I'm going back to the hospital again so I'm surprised thank you! Yes it's here This one It's not what I thought but no doubt This is the sixth floor Now let's hear it you see it's here sorry Representative Kristin I'm here to get the note I didn't notice anyone's presence gift was covered Isn't this a human problem? I'm leaving, you wait here Be careful This is beside descending pattern No When the bouquet is completely outside many times under Can you spare me? Now I can only believe what Ward Edogawa said if i pass this pipe another thing The structural parts of the bomb were combed out people cry something up what is this It's a battle of taste until i say emphasize All you need is this cloth talented but Tea Yes Pavilion thank you! maybe some is next main hesitate everyone is safe to some extent Did the blackboard really stand up? You don't have to analyze the contents of the jar and the liquid on my coat The place where the fire broke out is safe when i heard you were going to bill I'm scared Come down the drain wow you have more courage than me Christine because we are fine don't worry too much thank you! According to Conan A time bomb was suddenly activated when the door to the room is closed I'm sure he'll kill everyone who comes in So I contacted Kristin I'm trying to confirm who the invitees are I've heard from people around the site that they don't recall having such a connection I'm looking for the guy who brought the bomb there might be someone there so it doesn't matter The market is already doing it Speaking of Shibuya Not many people around here Are witnesses hopeless? How are you? Oh already what are you going to do Yes No Let me know if you find anything Meg Can you get me back to the previous question as soon as possible? she is very involved Oh I'm sorry about that e she writes well Yes a rigged bomb I was a year ago This is very similar to what Amuro-san et al. unlocked The personality of the person who made it is said to be revealed in the bomb The two incidents are most likely the work of the same criminal Sounds like she might need some emotional care Dewa Hello from Chiba Kun Um I repeat Chiba Prefecture If you want to come back, bring back Matsuda Shinbi Shochiku what is my purpose? I want to know if Chiba Kun is safe contact again even if he wants What is the purpose of these three people? Of course, prosecutors are reportedly the mastermind behind that bombing. just waiting in other words If you find out his death what do I do? If things go on like this, Chiba-kun's life will be ruined. i have an idea The detective investigating the family will be kidnapped and it's unexpected It was taken by a boy named Conan as long as you see this Similar to the bomb from three years ago Is this the same crime? I already have information about him High level gave me a heavy year it just arrived Liquid gunpowder from Conan's burial is currently being analyzed Started manufacturing neutralizers I risked my life to take it can not be wasted what are you going to do now Cooperate with the family to safely rescue the kidnapped police detective I don't mind revealing all our information For now, I've tried my best All right how do you move Are you serious? It's too dangerous As soon as we find something with a mic and a transmitter hidden we'll drive it What if you don't catch up in time and get kicked? If you were a viewer three years ago no problem i'm always unlucky The only person who can help Chiba in this situation is i am the only one Now Public security official Kazami-kun expresses willingness to cooperate with investigation From now on as a person will be with public safety I'll be back at my post safely let us go 'Cause he'll never let me die new year announcement This is evidence of the bombing that took place in front of the Metropolitan Police Department It seems that he found it later in the bushes i want to tell others This is a very important note Mist and Message's job offer to Matsuji No Paz is Neil Directif Matsuda Skola booties a gel man called the secretariat 萨巴Takutachi Plumia Jesus Surinia和 Kajutsu Heim's heated post-it notes pass weak signals so Here's an exchange of information on how to meet in a place like this Can you help me find a man named Furuya? He's stuck in an isolation facility now and can't do it Because he has a bomb around his neck some days ago With the help of the serial bomber you arrest Furuya escaped and was attacked while chasing this man He tied a bomb to his collar The man who then escaped was hit by a bomb of the same type as the one on Furuya That series of explosions and deaths was a trap Bring out the old house we see Analysis results The collar bomb is said to use a special two-liquid mixed explosive The same type of bomb was used in the accident three years ago who are you I'm guessing you've found an unidentified assassin country of nationality sex Unknown through the ages is active all over the world The base of operations is known in Russia as a formidable Bravia Bravia means fire in Russian, right? How does it feel when people use explosive explosives? Did you bring that boy too? I have seen suspicious bombs twice I think it would be quicker to bring him here So what is the power of the explosion? It explodes instantly when extremely explosive liquids are mixed together burst into flames It's a lot like that supervisor when we see foreigners Why should a campaign that was murdered before the CIA bother before the final? I slept soundly and don't know why the townspeople came to visit the Metropolitan Police Department hint is This card is not Mr. Matsuda that foreigner You didn't come to see Detective Matsuda even if you took a risk The cooperation of Detective Towers is necessary that the victim and the present There is some connection between the criminals kidnapped by Kai Chibakun Today's multi-tenant building bombing And the special bomb used by Pramiya Is it possible that it has been used Conan Kun and others are here It was unexpected even for Brian There really is no village there There was a threatening letter at his wedding After all, Pramiya's target is Mr. and Mrs. Murakami However What do you have to do with the burning of foreigners and the Chiba kidnapping case? I still don't know why it rains That's why I hear from someone I think you also know that Detective Matsuda was killed in the line of duty Four of the people in the same period have died, right? Detectives from the Explosive Ordnance Disposal Team and the Ogihara Team are dismantling the bomb criminal traffic accident Sorry Morobushi this is top secret You're still as mysterious as ever, right? It has nothing to do with the incident, believe it, Sweet Vinegar Akiba's rescue is now Takagi has the highest priority and he's been figuring out how to defuse this bomb I know you're analyzing and I'll prepare the material right away i want to say Actually I I'm not good at chemical engineering at all The most important thing is that he is stupid Specifically, what kind of person is Mr. Matsuda? Shiba Inu and Duo Ye are surprisingly kind Is it like meeting a porter? Hello buy malt Before that, let me hear Chiba-kun's voice I'm procrastinating to switch to Matsukawa When the outer walls of the cage disappear hair roots Star Please do as I say from now on Go straight to Miyashita Park call again let us go your face is cracked In his speech, Officer Takagi said that we are public security investigators Checking the monitor from a distance except for a long time Please Are there any suspicious people? house Don't let your guard down for the time being what kind of opponent I don't know how many TricksAttreat up many times halloween event must be boyfriend if it's halloween stop faster What are you doing? This is people feel so good there So can you help me part-time for this event? because it holds value Deputy Inspector Sato, please cooperate for a while see this Is Sergeant Takagi wearing it? direction Bring a police dog to track scents You're welcome One underground water tank remove the cover so sad Honda's Halloween Until you can fly Shiba and Doberman Detective Matsuda with Shiba Can you ensure Chiba's safety? Did you fall asleep under anesthesia or something? All right All right then i will ask why did you call me sorry for being rude Apologize Who says pricing is kidnapping Hey Matsuda Keiji I won't ask you to understand me but We have no choice but to do this one to one I'm Erinka Glenci From Russia to Japan to chase Plumia What it means to work with a filmmaker, a steelmaker, or a key point lasco 8 times faster I saw If you get that far, I can't help but listen to you is very difficult Lots of people gathered together The smell of candy gets in the way I hope it ends soon hello i found the location of the underground reservoir So the source is unknown Suddenly an image appeared on the screen Plamen is a terrorist who uses a special liquid gunpowder Countless people died at his hands My family was also killed by him everyone here by that terrible bomb their families and loved ones lost their lives swears revenge on plamia comrades standing together architect aOur company We have our own ramen tracking system is that so? They are a bunch of civilians Therefore the information available is limited I didn't know Detective Matsuda died in the line of duty I understand tell me what to do with the bomb Pramiya made you three years ago Defuse bombs placed in buildings I want you to tell us the structure of the bomb If you master these features you can predict ahead of time where to set it So we can catch him Aren't you going to cooperate with the police? I can't trust the police Diagnosed as a foreigner in front of the Metropolitan Police Is someone your friend? he is my brother Pramia has a rule I set fire to the hideout I was using for preparation before going in to hide evidence months ago Annie found a hiding place she went alone My brother managed to remove the tablet Seems like something connects the bomb to the East This seems to reflect something to do with Kyoto but The screen goes blank after a few seconds He said he hasn't had any response since then So I guess it would be faster to ask people in Tokyo about Tokyo he went to the police station That stele is a little burnt The bomb on him was placed on that slab in short This must be a trap for stealing I understand but According to you, you were at the scene of the accident three years ago That's why we developed this strategy Asked to detonate the Pramiani building I was going to catch him on the spot but fail and escape my brother often goes there We are the ones who want to see Detective Matsuda again He Said He Stopped the Plummia Bomb But He Couldn't Stop It So we'll get to know you I got a small amount of information like an old photo of me and if i call you it's an honor I got a family more important than my life i would do anything the story is over write me right now i don't want to write I agree with your personal grudge If you're riding on a rope or bag you'll want to protect it side dish Detective Matsuda, you have no choice Detective Chiba says Shindo is heavy no matter what happens I'll catch you and punish you I told you to check it and hand it to me Yes Tsuda died when I died because Lunch with Matsuzawa and Kerry at the Casino real and minus amano and my money sorry if you put it there Plamia is the game that benefits the most from all the competition Konan Hospital Then in the video just now you and I are acquaintances #tennisburg Rei second kakichi achan rainbow sky rating me and prime tree Do not come This is not the place for the kids Chip Ramen Oh Delicious Some people are still disgusting in the game hurry up this is a topic How are you? Yes to some extent I thought it was an Oscar winning performance until halfway through at the last minute Anyway it's fine How are you? thank you! This game is disgusting if someone is caught in the middle son pregnancy one small Naiko-chan I'm very good something So I'm trying my best to track down the runaway gang Let's cancel the ceremony. Everyone's safety is important. There is no doubt that the plastic side is for you from now on Please give them two honorifics you this is the message wedding on schedule With more casualties Lotte Chunichi I'm still having a wedding This is what I do now I'll catch you, why don't you do this to Miss Uranus? Even if the wedding is cancelled, it's just another place why are you so obsessed with weddings what happened conan look scared there is nothing it's a call then i'll go home Take care on the way back I didn't expect to get a call from you i want to tell you asap I found information about the organization from the plastic Organization Stories Before the Winter Solstice We have a network from Russia to Europe Dow appears to be going after Plamia alone If you stop breathing the roots of plastic rain at that time of day The leader is a woman named Erinika There are burn marks on her face National police hesitant to plan and more They were incensed by the reaction of... I set up an organization to go back and forth However Although this is a private organization A very unpleasant opponent for Flania How much money did he bring to get in the way of work? Maybe it has something to do with the bombing in Japan Incidents of burning aliens and bombing buildings I'm a little confused about the bar For me it is safer to use the wireless method than the geo-identification method This time he deliberately contacted the police from the other side Brahmire must have had some intention one more I don't even know why I put a collar bomb on Mr. Amuro If you want revenge for where you lured out a year ago i will kill you soon I was thinking did you see the evidence memorandum in the Shaoxi case? I still don't know what that means However My friend told me it was time for the wedding Impatience is the biggest trap How many times have you overcome this contraption? Good luck I am late i'm tired of being here I asked in the wind on the wedding day Yes This is heavy rain after all be a little monster poison Sumatra or not, find mother and baby Etna on Sakaanku for the cost of a day even with boobs uninteresting cherries Many instructors are waiting for the rain old palm Therapeutic Ribbon Bow Tie Lu Portable Jet Everyone in Two Gels and Nika exhibition is also in the chest of drawers in Toyohashi and young Spa team lace handkerchief maha It's too thin for Steve Tibro's season Dear Mr. Uchida, AIDS is distressing scary Please remove the spa function cool do it after all av something terrible happened It feels like the wedding will only be officiated by muranaka and christine It was a harvest wedding but unfortunately it's easy to get along with s eyes Oh When the explosion happened before the final it fell in front of me I remember writing that memo a little bit You said you saw my sister's memo i don't think it's english I do not quite understand I want to wait until my dad wakes up and ask him this is not a circle marker here and here There is a threatening letter in the rain i want to tell others This is a very important memo She's in the hospital with a shoulder injury she's dating in town oh dear a child who noticed such a place Pick it up and give it to me I have something my friend would love to give Show it to Mr. Matsui That's how the shape came Even raw ramen is surprising I swear to make all the unsold ramen company established together wedding on schedule if you stop When it comes to more casualties it's here this is the answer pseudonym see what i just said This is the traffic rules section for halloween From the y-intersection at the foot of Dogenzaka, go all the way to Miyayamazaka First of all, the Beetle Road goes through Shibuya Station There is also an intersection across the guarded Meiji-do Rotate 90 degrees It's a mark, right? The coin just burned so I mistook it for the yen mark but The hikariis where Shinya Murakami held the wedding is located in Shibuya Even if you didn't mean to draw a picture like this No More than just Hikari maybe the surrounding area You say this house is like a search room I'm talking about those 12 hours e You said you solved another mystery I almost got trapped in the explosion in that building After all, this is not aimed at Shinya Murakami for us from the beginning You may have seen this evidence note The criminal tried to destroy the man After all how do you know the kids are going to that multi-tenant building? bombs are like marijuana I heard it was pre-arranged Someone must have sent everyone there no way The guy who said he was going to a meeting In Japan people hide themselves by changing facial features That's what the police detective said don't worry about that The previous owner was evicted from the house I don't sell my identity I'm pretty sure he retired for a while Although he had a chance to change i am a policeman A child finds the victim's lost item, picks it up and gives it to him because i was talking this time Sister Lan picked up the child without saying the child's name. She didn't know what that was so she wanted to bomb them all This is Shinichi-niichan's inference this letter really this is russian not english Odagami probably means Apulian bullet What is tomorrow? Four numbers Kin-chan Everyone knows That Then Shinya Murakami committed suicide you have informed me come out How are you? Honestly, it's horrible, we're gonna protect you I think they killed two people in Japan too The bomb in that building was also intact. I won't let you touch Pramiya Yes yes but body would be helpful Kashiwa used discarded Ayumi also wants to go to Shibuya there is no way we can't go alone Adults don't seem to care keep quiet honest Sunohara is a quality test chopped A big city with big hall buildings There are policemen working hard in the middle to protect the nighttime view kick as hard as you can Shibuya Check Shinagawa Police I don't think I'm doing a quiz for Ikebukuro Keizai I really want to go to Shibuya Yes The answer is Shibuya Because there is a store in the middle I don't care about this I spent a lot of time thinking about it Yes Yes why I don't know what it is but it's worth healing Email from Dr. Ushitanda One no no no no no What do you mean Oh don't hide anything loose land man When I know why a man wears a hat A little then Umbrella bags usually escape to Alan More than war now It's dangerous here tonight Lysia Kata struggling love Pramia Guys like Baris Pero let's exchange rings Hey What happened Yes vertical column poisonous The child's head was blown off i am in the middle what do you mean you know the identity of the dark Solve the previous two problems The rear cage closes and locks the entrance gate Put your hands up Plumia No what are you saying? Tsuda did not you No why should I tell myself I'm going to sanitize today? Both the bride and groom quickly raised their hands how are you bride Please raise your hand What awaits her is the traffic accident she suffered three years ago She couldn't lift her right shoulder due to the aftermath of the accident traffic accident three years ago My right arm was raised because I was shot by a Japanese detective Christine Richard No Pramyang me please why is she the culprit This is a metal detector The suspension pool is already filled and ready to eat ramen it reacts if you get near it This is a product with metal bolts due to minor surgery so you Pramiya said in the waiting room just now that he killed two people? The news of the killing of the second bomber has not been officially announced why? To protect our wedding we have decided to use perfect security Didn't you give it to me? Objective expression is a mess until monthly sorry christina That's what I did the last time I went to Christina Noisy Noisy Christmas is so annoying people like him you release such a thing who knows my real identity no one survives come right ing (ing) up i came early potato chips flavor wood watching others hug them firmly Very from Enter from the outside entrance Somehow I made it up sorry I'm a young asshole really What should I be worried about now? Good morning Akashi and I went to the roof as a wedding ceremony The rented helicopter is glittery after all and it itches like a refugee When pressing or chasing condensation it's naughty Abel near the area Osuka sashimi search is former pichi Kunampura Eye Tasting Tea Parfait I think it's better to give up Christine it I think you should call me brahmire Who is Edogawa Conan? stable e insect your plan failed plan to kill them all in the days of erinka and radda Ti is you I follow you to the ends of the earth As expected by Plamemo monopoly So I made a plan to come back to life gather them in one place blow it up with your favorite bomb All right you're right kid I First to dispel rumors that he is retiring Then they approached the village and someone targeted Shinya Murakami if this has anything to do with bra rain They rushed to get me I'm afraid this is my last chance You have another purpose in killing witnesses you are that brownie I've killed everything I've seen Yes I once tasted the humiliation of the Japanese sorry accepted by the police The target was the result of an in-depth investigation by the United States and the then Metropolitan Police Department Matsuda died shortly after died in a traffic accident caution, Cole calls zero a hero Even if you only know the name of Furusia Morus No matter how I searched I couldn't find any information about those two people Looks like they want to lure him out with the bomber who killed the detective If you let that guy race he'll climb out of the hole pretty quickly Pools appear as expected successful bombing If you get that far another person will definitely come out i used to call it It won't come out even if you make it this far i think i'm dead Erinka's brother Oleg's tablet It's Moana, right? He returned the tablet he deliberately stole to his friend If you do you can blow it up there and blow the Radha Cayden era away However did not see his companion acting alone in Matsuda He wants to tell me everything Matsuda is dead so He said he was using the GPS on the tablet to mark You detonated the bomb before being taken to the police station The keyword "Tokyo" I prepared in my tablet caution, People in those days ate well However I didn't know the guy found the bullet in me is a wrong calculation I just noticed the note left by Oleg middle class compared to three years ago Also the Demon King Kitano Even saying this can hinder the injured person's activities as a help to play alone For those who make precision bombs it's fatal That's why those who give up Is it true that the price of this is not being able to lift my right arm? Where is my bomb? Your real identity is the police or the Dow Jones Many people know including the same person No need to let it explode anymore I said before that you know my true identity no one can bear it alone caution, These kids are idiots halloween decoration i think i just think no way this light liquid gunpowder including derby Dogenzaka Placed in Miyayamazaka etc. keep the liquid to a minimum Flow down to the rescue channel So you took advantage of Shibuya's height difference? Massive Hybrid Liquid Bomb It will explode like never before and Everything I radiate disappears this way This is exactly what I want to hear not public pool or I can catch you anytime let you know where the bomb is I made you swim here on purpose oh dear I can make a rough prediction based on that marker but I can't escape anymore e I've come this far All right Put your hands up turn to the back of her head money If this happens, even only one person can see Yes I am here e can read I'll keep a spare just in case I'll let that person go one step ahead of you that collar bomb One you what I wonder if this will happen I returned your gift to you slave The bomb fluid was thoroughly analyzed in order to create the neutralizer My excellent subordinates allow me to avoid doing this and what i want to go is done here How do you like it? to wait until I won't miss Usa-kun this time i hate nerds What an irrational fate to jump on and fight criminals acquaintance hide behind the culprit I just can't see us going north Who is Cairo? a Yes it's here Seiko Iida your dreams no longer come true ashamed of you this is complete soon What a fuss This The guts are right in the middle of the Shibuya intersection sent by Conan it is written in have it good past Oh flight i will run Be careful Will this prevent explosions? i am your sister My plans fell through because I was in a hurry as a former detective I can't make any more mistakes you are a haiku stay away from here Isn't it bad for you to stay here? You are a police officer why don't you do that? you're a detective I understand that's all Looks like this face doesn't work for my fiancé How are you? Confidentiality from Meguru and others if you are alive Downstream credit and tax accounting morale pretty and fun barber's you can't add it to me Even if you sell the next ramen, your son won't come back what do you know I can't go back to my old life my son, husband and brother were killed by him oh dear I do a lot of housework I sacrificed everything to build a country to kill him I'm not satisfied if you don't kill me with this hand why did you get killed Killing Pets Are A Politician's Child When A Policeman I just arrested the suspect in this case and proved it in court When it comes to my son when I want to say Did my son do something wrong? No tell me I hope you trust the Japanese police because I will definitely punish this person Working with Erinika To prevent the tragedy from repeating I need your help Nara Japanese Ceramics what The following is the story of Dr. Goto This is the new belt uncle Yes I do not have time this is also I have no idea I saw the email I sent to Dr. You can change it run with the end of this sling especially my daughter easy to win It's about the size of a Rakantei badge tied up isn't it a good deal everyone And the sensory switch of bathing in the sun star at home black outline oh dear Kira Richards local released Open server Fulong Temple star pattern country up Yes but are you ready I have to go too Where Yes who runs fast condition help you can do it there No this road However Myself Yes so far clean up up How are you? Yes serious injury why are you silent? I have to suppress myself I already know Too bad things got worse I care kind hearted article then the number of people outside Everyone is evacuating and no one is a good person also old tree nuts network I am that person and Yes First between meta actions Below is the series by Sergey Libya A ball in a messy box concise and detailed Doesn't it end in the town of Nereev? locker room this should be fine to win wait Yes, not at all before work there is nothing the girl all winter Oh Yes passed I am here I don't know why Seems to be completely eliminated within an hour as expected by police work You made this prophecy Someone gave me a hint that it was a long time ago I content is ok i am a monk polite woman don't make me cry say and w also What are you doing? why I remember inside That hand might stop the explosion For some reason that guy slept with a guy named Ogihara what's wrong No respectively Needle is in I say because those people However If you're not in Shibuya, it's my sea now high and low Mr. Sato Mr. Sato maybe I also i think i'm going to have an operation Actually hope to be successful spell choice spell If you're in good spirits you'll be fine The sky appears again Come able to survive Oh Today I incorporated a blue guide and I'm grimacing again oh dear result in the tartan survival book illustrations are fun Yes Like a strong nostalgic opposition party, I served as evidence That's why someone on the street years and promises bought again a place that doesn't work That's why Year Tokyo Five Columns bang bang bang that's right i will never go again All right gold song of the day C is waiting I beer Makeup also has a small highlight in this scheme Yes like culture scroll jam cm regular tired of english What a small idea to think of Mount Saint-Vuc Please Kelly's Special Smells Beautiful Because it's empty and cruel Recommended grid c must Yes in two ways back convention nice I nice guy Let's go through the station However What did the person who bought it yesterday think of it vegetable factory inside Um it used to be I Reality and the bananas you think you need tomorrow Participate for a week tell me Yes One One This town hides its whereabouts our strength surplus mask Pillow Incident statistics for those who stayed I hooked on painting early morning confusing tall glass correct There's even Heo e i want to go get some water I stare like I won't go I All right This time I heard Yes it's gone up Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes bucket That if i get in the car real I slept in the hospital for a while What are you doing? This time I attacked my aunt's funeral in the north Adaptability because the person reportedly had a notice I i gotta dress like this I miss you Shirley SUBBED BY AmiFutami [Yugen]