Transcript for The Alien Report (2024) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- - But it seems-- - Look at that thing. There's a whole fleet of them, look-- My gosh. Ever since I was a kid, things have been happening to me. Strange, strange things have been happening to me. And... ...I just never really figured out how to talk about it. I'm filming a documentary. I'm using GoPros, iPhones, and tiny medical cameras. My bigger plan... ...is to post it all on YouTube. Let everybody see what's been going on. This will explain everything. So I'm out here at the county junkyard doing a couple tests. I got my hat cam. I've got this cam, and I got this new tool that is supposed to bust out a window in the first try. And, uh, I'm gonna find out who's been behind those tinted windows in my neighborhood. Here we go. One-- Okay, three tries. There's one around the corner. At the end of the alley. Oh, come on, come on, I hope it's still there. To the guy... ...whose window I busted out today. I did you wrong. I'm sorry. Unfortunately... ...your car just so happened to look like one of the cars I've been looking for. Today I was wrong. Next time... ...I'm not gonna be wrong. Come out! Come out! What the fuck, bro, you fucking broke my window, man! My car! Get him! Diesel, don't kill him! Yo, yo-- I need someone to come. Get him! No! Get him! No, no! I know you're not gonna believe this. I've been abducted by aliens my whole life. My car! What's up, man? Guess what? I found a way to record it. See, I hid a tiny micro camera inside of my hearing implant. And no one knows that it's there. And I've been recording these abductions in high definition, with color and sound. ...fuck out of here! Fuck-- The stuff I got, it's all messed up. But when you see it, you're gonna see what I've been seeing my whole life. And I've got it. I've already got it. This is the kind of place I go to in my mind when, when I need to keep them out. And when they dig deep into my mind, I just focus on the sound of the board smacking the rail. The noises. The rush. They don't know what to do with it. Kind of just messes them up. Hey, hey. What you doing, man? You doing a video over here? Oh, shit, my boy doing a video, bro. - Hell yeah! Let's make some videos, man. What you say? What's your thing, bro? Huh? I wanna be in a video too, bro. Bro. Hold on, bro. Hold on, hold on. Hey, can I be in your video? Can I be in your video? Eh, he got-- Hey, he's got real serious real quick. Hey listen, hey, you out here live with Polo, you already know me. It's a beautiful Friday night. Got a little weed in my system-- but listen, I think he-- I think I pissed him off. Hey, listen, can I be in your video? You know I'm just playing with you, right? You know I'm just paying with you, right? You ain't mad at me, are you? I think he's mad at me. I think he's mad, I think I pissed him off. Hey listen, how about we make a deal? Us four right here. We're gonna make a little sweet deal, all right? Hey, give h-- give him the bag, give him the bag. So, I need that work done by Monday. All right? So get me that work done by Monday and you get your phone back. What you think? We got a deal? Give me my phone back. - I need that work done by Monday. And you get your phone back. Deal? -Can I get my phone back? -We got a deal? Dude, I'm just playing with you-- hey, you know I'm just messing with you, right? You know I'm just playing with you, right? You're my guy, bro, you're my go to guy. Just get the phone-- just get t-- get the phones done by Monday and we'll be all good. Good? -...my phone back. -It's all yours, bro. Thanks a lot. Monday, okay? Sorry, Polo. Monday's too soon. Why did I wait so long? The footage! I don't even know-- I thought I was ahead! - I'm so stupid, I'm so stupid! Stupid, stupid, stupid! I don't even know what's real! I don't even know what's going on! There are these unusual vehicles. Sporty modified cars with dark, blacked out tinted windows. And strange numbered license plates. Sort of, like, foreign plates or government plates. They follow me and they're watching me, monitoring me from a distance. It's been going on... ...maybe my whole life. Often, I catch one out of the corner of my eye for just a moment before it speeds around the corner and disappears out of sight. Who's in those cars? What's behind those blacked out windows? Who's watching me? And is it one of them? Or is it one of us? My first footage ever was from a tiny medical camera. But the image quality just wasn't good enough. When I got it, though, I immediately posted it on YouTube, thinking it would go viral right away. Check out some of these comments. "Nice job with the photoshop, dickweed." "Seriously creepy, but fake." "Ha, ugly dog. Not convincing at all." "Stop posting, loser, aliens are real, this is the shit that ruins the internet and the cause we all believe in." "I'm not sure what I'm supposed to be seeing here. Really? Do you think we're all that dumb, you POS?" So I rebuilt my implant. The one I got now is a modified micro camera with cell phone optics. I also programmed it so it records in random bursts. That way, if I don't know it's recording, they don't know it's recording. So I work with electronics. The thing about electronics is they disable them. Always. Any electronics, anything mechanical is always disabled when they take you. That's what they do. But interbody components, like pacemakers and bioelectronics, I don't think they power those down. Because one night, I fell asleep with my implant on and they didn't power it down. That's a huge deal because my implant has a power supply that stays on. And with that power supply, I started thinking I could reorganize the components and squeeze a micro camera right in there. See that? This is my nighttime implant. This is the one with the camera in it. And they still don't know it's there. When they have you, you can't move, you can't speak, you can't do anything they don't want you to do. And if you're lucky, you won't remember any of it. Did you say something? I just wanna go home! What's the matter with you? What's the matter with you? How do we get out of here? When I look up at the sky at night, I see more than just the stars and the moon and the planets. I see a giant open door. You know, a huge open window that can't be shut. That's the sky that I see. You know, people obsess over locking their doors and locking their windows every night before they go to bed, right? That's what we do. But our sky, we can't close that. When we send these satellites into space with these messages on NASA's golden records... - ...spiting in 55 different languages, broadcasting to things we've never even met. Over and over and over again... ...deeper and deeper into space. "We are from Earth. We are exactly right here. Whoever you are, please come to us. Come and see what we have. We have plenty for all. And if you arrive late in the night when everyone is asleep, the sky is wide open. The sky is always wide open. We are the children. And it's a pleasure to receive you." When I was a kid... I heard these voices in my head. I was visited by these light beings. And I thought they were angels. And I thought all kids were visited by these angels. When I told the other kids about them, though, it just caused problems. Apparently, other kids weren't being visited by these angels. It was just me. I was brought up in the system through Child Services. It labeled me as sort of being fucked right from the start. And with my messed up face and all that, most people thought I was just some schizoid. So doctors pumped me with all that schizoid med shit, and most families didn't want me, except for the crazy ones, which made it even worse. And so I was brought up to be this little psycho right from the start. And turns out I had a grandma, though. She found me when I was, like, six or seven maybe. She came in and snatched me right out. In a blink of an eye, it all changed. She got my hearing right. She got me speaking right. Got me out of that system. And we began this sort of... run around the country. You know? Town to town to town. City to city to city. I was always the new kid. Always the deaf kid. Kid with the face. Problem kid. We're always moving. My grandma, she was, she was tough. She was sort of eccentric. She was a good person. She passed away not too long ago, though. Now that it's just me-- I guess that's why I'm making these videos. I got footage of this one. She's a mix. She's female. Half us and half them. But she's more like us. Human. I feel like I've seen her my whole life. I know her. She has this name, but it's not a name. They don't use names. They use, like, abstract thoughts or descriptions as names. Hers... is something like "the beginning of night" or "the moment night begins to form." She's trapped like me. I'm down here and she's up there or wherever they are, with them. W-- we're both a part of whatever it is they're doing. And I don't even know what that is, but she does. She can't tell me. She won't tell me. I can always tell when they're hooking into my brain. They see everything. Everything I know, everything I think, everything I've ever known. One time, they were all over me. So I started thinking about survival mode in this video game, Driver. The cops are chasing me. I'm slamming into the walls. Cars are flying everywhere. Crashing, smashing, speeding. I'm screaming as loud as I can. It's weird, but I could tell I was freaking them out. They just stopped moving and locked onto my thoughts. I actually reached out and pushed one of them. Not hard, but it took them by surprise. When they're in my mind, I don't let them know about my hidden camera. I don't let them know about my hidden camera. I don't let them know about my hidden camera. I don't let them know about my hidden camera. I block it out. I think about Driver or some crazy thoughts. They feed off of strong emotions cause they don't have any. There was this lady on this table. she was laying right next to me. She had her chest cut wide open. They were doing some sort of experiment on her. I thought she was dead. She was just laying there, looked straight up, eyes wide open. But then she turned and started talking to me. Hey. Are you crying? Don't cry. Everything will be okay. No, no, no, no, no, no, no! They remind me of a swarm of bees. When they stare at you, there's no eyeball, it's just black. They talk to you with those things. Sometimes, that's all I see, it's those eyes. Those big black eyes. And it doesn't matter which one's talking to you. It's all in the same voice. It's my voice, my own voice telling me what to do. They share a master brain or thought process. What one of them knows, they all know. What one of them thinks, they all think. You believe everything they say because it's your voice saying it. You can't help it because it's like a God voice that speaks to every bit of your being, to every sense and to every belief. You do whatever they say. They tried to soothe me, but they have no clue how to do it. They're sort of emotionless or robotic. They say that they're helping us, making us better, making us biologically better. I hear them think that, like they own us or something. They share these unusual thoughts. "We are all one. We all come from the same place. We're helping you, don't be afraid. We're making you better." Better how? Better like what? Like them? Stop taking me. Because you terrify me. You take me when you want and you make me do things I don't remember. So I've got these four cameras now. I got my hat cam. I got my chest cam. Got the bike cam. Got the hidden cam. And they're all powered up and they're all ready to go. Whoever you are, whatever you are, I see your cars. I can feel you when you're around. And I used to pretend not to, but I'm not gonna pretend anymore. Who's watching me? I wanna know. I keep the cameras rolling. I wanna put my face up against one of their windows. But they play by a whole different set of rules. They seem to know when I get too close. They speed away before I get near and just sort of vanish. Catching one will be difficult, but that's to be expected. There's one right over there. That's what I've been talking about. All right. There's something in my leg. Here, look. Watch how this magnet gets pushed away. Can you see that? You can't even see that. There's, like, some sort of magnetic field. I don't know what's in there, but... ...I'm gonna cut it out. Oh! There it is. It looks like a piece of glass. Hang on. I don't know if you can see that. There's, like, thousands of little light crystals in there. The magnet's going crazy. I wonder if that's how they've been tracking me. Not anymore. Come out! Come out! Hello? - No! - Stop! Stop, police! I got one running. Stop! Stop! I stopped chasing after those cars... ...after one of them tried to put me in its trunk. But there's been this one parked behind an abandoned building for the past few nights. Earlier, I decided to call the cops on it. And I got the whole thing on video. This is the fourth time I've called. Is anyone coming? Sir, stay on the cell phone, all right? We're on our way. Hello? Oh! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! What happened? There was a light... ...the black car was gone! Where am I? Where am I? Where am I? Where am I? I've seen things! Horrifying, terrifying, incredible things. Things in tubes, genetic experiments, where people are screaming right in front of me and I can't help them. All things done to us that just aren't right. We live to be 80 years old if we're lucky. And that's just a season to them. Just a tiny blink of time. And I don't know how we're gonna do anything about it. Last night I got this footage. They were working on me. And I didn't like it. And in the back-- In the back, there was the biggest man I've ever seen. It was like a Frankenstein. He was all slumped over, hooked up to these tubes. But then he stood up. Broke free, swinging his fists. Started coming at us. Step by step. Swinging and swinging. While I was watching it, all I could think of was, "Get them, Frankenstein. Get them, Frankenstein! Get them, Frankenstein." Look what's happening to my face. I got these things all over my body. They hurt. People are looking at me. They're doing this to me. I know they're doing this to me. They've been taking me a lot. I think they know I'm up to something. But they don't know what it is. But they've been-- but they've been probing me... ...and taking me... ...all the time. Trying to figure it all out. But I'm not letting them in. I don't know how much longer I can keep this up. I, I only sleep during the day... ...in crowded places. I've been falling asleep in... ...movie theaters, libraries, coffee shops, trains, wherever there's people. And then I stay up all night. I go to a club or whatever's open. As long as there's people, and I don't fall asleep... ...they can't get me. No, lay down. Relax. Relax. Stay down. That's a lot of blood! What's your name? Where you going? I don't eat. I don't sleep. I'm not sure what's going on. They're making me sick. They're scrambling my brain. I-- I've been gushing blood. Not just a little, a lot. Out of my nose. Out of my ears. Out of everywhere. I hope I'm not dying. You know? As if anyone would even care. Please. Make it stop. Make it go away. I think I'm done. I took all of my footage, copied it on to these flash drives, and hid them all throughout this giant warehouse. In the next couple of days, I'm either going to upload them or take it to somebody that can do something with it. I don't know. But I'm done. Done. Why did I wait so long?! - The footage, it's gone! Gone, gone, gone! They erased it, they erased it all! I don't even know-- I thought I was ahead! I thought I had them, but they knew the whole time! - I'm so stupid, I'm so stupid! Stupid, stupid, stupid! I don't even know what's real! I don't even know what's going on! Mystery man. It's me, Polo. Hey, I got this green little flash drive, and it's yours. It was in the bag of phones. And I watched all the footage. Start to finish. What the fuck is this? Man, this is gonna be trouble. We can help you. Call me. Is he alive? Is he alive? Look at his face. Do something. Save him, please! Division 616, United States Air Force Elite. I am flight commander 13516. Test pilot for highly advanced acquired alien craft. Anti-gravitational lift, propulsion integration. Security clearance alpha, tango, Mike, bravo. You can't take him! That's my flesh and blood. He doesn't belong to you. No! No, don't send me back! I'm not leaving without him! Little baby, I'm gonna hijack one of their ships and hide you in another place, - in another time. - -I wish you could understand me. But I don't wanna leave you. You're not alone in this world. I am your father! I'll find you. I'm coming back for you. I swear. See, Darwin says that this gap between apes and humans... ...is the missing link. There's something missing, they say. Yeah, well, it ain't missing. Darwin just couldn't find it. See, he was too busy digging in the ground when he should've been looking up at the sky.