Transcript for The Great Bear Scare (1983) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- ( music playing ) News anchor: With tension mounting daily, we interrupt this program for a live update on the bear scare crisis in Bearbank. Waiting at the Bureau of Bear Affairs is our on-the-spot reporter Patty Bear with a live report. - Come in, Patty. - Monsters are coming. That's what most of the bears of Bearbank are whispering to each other. That's right. Monsters are going to invade the world tomorrow night. Patty Bear: Where will the monsters come from? Most bears fear they will come from nearby Monster Mountain. What do you think, sir? I think smart bears should board up their houses and leave town now! Um, and now a word from our sponsor. Hey, wait, wait. Wait just a minute. Why should anyone run away from monsters? Patty Bear: Oh, Ted E., you're so brave, but we're off the air. Hmm. Well, I-- I don't understand why people are afraid of something they don't understand. Excuse me, gentlemen. I think I have a solution to our dilemma. Fear is something we shouldn't be afraid of. Bear: Patty, you're on again. This is Patty Bear again, coming to you live from the Bureau of Bear Affairs. We're waiting for some word from the secretary. Wait, he's coming out of his office now. - Reporter: Mr. Secretary. - Mr. Secretary General. Would you give us a statement? Patty Bear: Sir, any truth to the rumors about monsters invading Bearbank tomorrow night? Uh, yes. Uh, no. The Bureau of Bear Affairs is on top of everything. But what about tomorrow night? What is the bureau doing? Doing? Well, the Bureau of Bear Affairs has, uh, taken decisive action. You mean-- sir, you mean-- What young Ted is trying to say here-- - Ted: But I-- - He'll be honored to go up to Monster Mountain to show everyone in Bearbank that we have nothing to be afraid of. Did you hear that, boss? He called us nothing. Then, my lovely, they have nothing to fear. ( cackles ) And that is the one weapon that will conquer the world. Fear. Fear. ( echoes ) Fear. Fear. Fear. ( music playing ) Bear: Five, four, three, two... Good evening, and welcome to Bearwitness News. The big story tonight, fear-- fear that the monsters of Monster Mountain are planning to invade the world. Monster Mountain is the dark and mysterious peak overlooking Bearbank. It's long been rumored to be the secret hideaway of all the monsters in the world. If these monsters plan to invade the world, the invasion route would follow the Bearbank Highway down the mountain, putting the city of Bearbank directly in the path of the monster invasion. With the invasion threat only one day away, a lot of bears have been leaving town. Bearbank International Bearport reports all flights leaving the city are filled and the roads are reportedly jammed with bears leaving. ( horns honking ) Do we have reason to be afraid? In the studio with us tonight is the noted specialist in probabilities at Grizzly University Dr. Werner Von Bear. Ja, we don't know much about this Monster Mountain. Smart bears have sense enough to stay away from the place. No, there could be something up there - that poses no danger to anyone at all. - ( wolf howls ) On the other paw, there could be nothing up there, and that might be very dangerous. No army in the world can adequately prepare for the invasion of nothing. Thank you, Dr. Von Bear. Late today, the Bureau of Bear Affairs announced it was sending Ted E. Bear to Monster Mountain to investigate the rumors of a monster invasion. I don't like it, Miss Witch. I don't want some little teddy bear meddling around up here. Tomorrow night is the invasion. We are about to do what monsters have always dreamed of. We are about to conquer the world. We monsters owe you a lot, boss. You have the cunning of a bat. A bat would not let some soft-headed teddy bear foul his perfect plan. I'd better flitter down to Bearbank and check on him. First you must get airborne, right, boss? Right. Mumpkin, pumpkin, make me a bat. Hey, boss, maybe you need more batting practice. ( cackles ) Mumpkin, pumpkin, make me a bat. Mumpkin, pumpkin, make-- ( high voice ) There must be an easier way to conquer the world. Oh, well. This is it-- home for the monsters. Look at it. The Big Apple. Isn't it rotten? Monster Burgers. I wish I had time to stop for a bite. This has sure grown up. I can remember when it was a weed patch. Now it's all condos. ( screech echoes ) My kind of town. I can't see anything! I'm blind as a bat! Where's that flashlight? There. Bearbank. Hmm. Bearbank. There it is, beautiful downtown Bearbank. Soon, little bears, it will be mine. I'll turn all that beauty to ugly. I can't hear a thing. I must open this window somehow. Mumpkin, pumpkin, make me back. ( normal voice ) Good, I made it on the first try. Miss Witch would be proud of me. Ted: But, Patty, I have to go. I can't back out now. Patty: I know what's going to happen. You're going to find monsters up there and then you'll be stuck with the job of saving the world. Of course, there could be a news story in that. Ted: Wait, you're not-- you're not thinking of going along. Patty: I could cover the story from the air and... Drat. Before this is over, we'll have all the bears coming up to Monster Mountain. I'd better flutter back and prepare a welcome for Ted E. Bear. Mumpkin, pumpkin, make me a bat. I think maybe it would be safer if I walk back. Patty: Good morning, Bearbank. This is your Bearwitness News Bear in the Air reporting from Bear Square where brave Ted E. Bear is preparing for his trip to Monster Mountain. Ted E. has been appointed by the Bureau of Bear Affairs to learn the truth. - Now, Freddie... - It's Ted E. Yes, yes. Just remember, now, bears are afraid of nothing. Patty: And there goes Ted E. Bear on his way to... "Monster Mountain." 20 miles? Ugh, this is unbearable. I must try again. Mumpkin, pumpkin, make me a bat. ( groans ) This is the worst batting slump I've ever been in. - ( car approaching ) - The bear! Ted E. Bear. Uh-oh. Hey, looks like somebody wants a ride. Hey, need a lift? Do I need a lift? Does a bat need wings? ( sobs ) I want a lift. Please! Sure, okay. Hop in. Oh, thank you, little bear. Hey, were you going to walk to Monster Mountain? No, no, I was going to fly, but I-- I couldn't get a reservation. Why are you going to Monster Mountain? See, I'm supposed to see if there's-- if there's anything up there to be afraid of. But Dr. Von Bear said it would be more frightening to find nothing. I-- I don't understand that. I mean, it's frightening to think about all the things I might find. Perhaps you should think about it some more, young bear. Look, there's the entrance to Monster Mountain. You'd better let me out here. Well, a-aren't you going with me? No, I've got a telephone call to make. Thank you for the ride. You're welcome. Seemed like a very polite fella, but what a strange place to make a phone call. Miss Witch, that little bear is entering Monster Mountain. Sound the red alert. This is Patty Bear with the Bearwitness News update. The brave young representative of the Bureau of Bear Affairs, Ted E. Bear, has entered Monster Mountain. His car has disappeared into the tunnel that connects the mountain with the rest of the world. Boss? Where are you? It's the boss. - He is? Now? - ( meows ) The bear is here? Right, boss. All units, a bear is entering Monster Mountain. Apprehend immediately. I will coordinate the search from the air. Come along, Luther. ( meows ) - ( alarm ) - ( fireworks popping ) ( alarm continues ) ( shouting ) Miss Witch: This is three niner zulu to Monster Control. We have a green light on the ignition sequence. We have ignition. Ted: Wow, there's a whole city up here. So far I've seen nothing and I'm already afraid. Maybe they're right. Maybe bears are afraid of-- of nothing. My, this-- this hill is steep. - My brakes-- I hope I can stop in time. - ( brakes squealing ) ( monsters shriek ) Oh! ( monsters shriek ) Oh, no! Miss Witch: You let him get away. This was a ghastly performance, monsters. I want every guard on full alert. Find that bear. Move it! ( yawns ) Looking for nothing can be very tiring. I-- I think I'll rest. Just-- just for a minute. ( yawns, snores ) ( humming ) Did you find Ted E. Bear? The troops are still looking for him. We can't wait. It's almost time for the invasion. I must get ready for the rally. Aye, aye, Chief. That's Commander in Chief, and don't you forget it. This is our big moment, Miss Witch. In a few hours, the world will be ours. ( murmuring, grunting ) Look at that, Miss Witch. Have you ever seen anything so frightening in all your life? ( grunting continues ) Look, boss! It's the bear! Dracula: Get him, Miss Witch, and bring him to the pep rally. ( grunting continues ) Huh? Oh, my goodness. ( chuckles ) Your goodness won't last long. ( stammers ) B-bears are afraid of nothing. ( cackles ) And we are just the nothing you are afraid of. Wait a minute. Did you say you were a-- a nothing? ( cackles ) Ted: If-- if you aren't real, then you must be in my mind. The thing you have to figure out is which witch is which? ( cackles ) Now, come along. ( grunting, murmuring ) ( laughter ) - Give me a "D"! - "D"! - Give me an "R"! - You wait right here, Ted E. Bear. You are about to meet the most frightening creature in the world-- Count Dracula. ( cackles ) What does it spell? Dracula! Thank you, thank you. My fellow monsters, the first step on our invasion will be Bearbank. But, remember, if we are going to conquer the world, we must be there before the stroke of midnight. Now, I would like to show you what happens when these bears meet a monster. The bear, please. Now, watch. ( roaring ) Hey, you're the guy-- he's the guy I gave a ride to. What do you mean? I-- I am Count Dracula, the most frightening of all monsters. Yeah, but, you know, you're-- you're not frightening. - Monster: Really? - Y-you're not frightening either. ( murmuring ) ( murmuring continues ) The part of you that's real isn't frightening. It's kind of funny. And the part of you that isn't real is in my mind, and it's only as scary as I make it. Hmm, he's got us figured out. ( murmuring ) He may have figured us out... but he's just one bear, and he's too late. It's D-day. The world has run out of time! - Monster: Let's go! - Dracula: Let's march on Bearbank! ( whooping, cheering ) Patty: This is a Bearwitness News update. It has been hours since brave little Ted E. Bear entered the tunnel in an attempt to save the world. Wait, I see activity down there. I see monsters. Monsters of every description are coming out of Monster Mountain. They're headed for Bearbank! There's still no sign of Ted E. Bear. All of Bearbank is waiting nervously. There he is! Ted sees us! Patty? Hey, Patty! We must get him aboard. Ted E. Bear, the only bear who might be able to save the world, is climbing aboard our Bear in the Air ship now. Ted, what have you learned about the monsters? Is there anything we can do to stop them? Yeah-- yeah, sure. Sure. All you have to do... - Speak into the camera. - Ted: Oh. Hi, bears. This is Ted. The secret is simple. I should've known when the secretary general said bears are afraid of nothing. That's true, you know. Nothing can be very frightening. Well, I got up to Monster Mountain, and you know what I found out? Monsters are nothing. That's what-- that's what makes them scary. But when you stop to think about it, it seems kind of silly, doesn't it? Why should anybody be afraid of nothing? Monsters are really kind of funny. So, if you want to get rid of monsters, all you have to do is-- is call their bluff. - Call their bluff? - Of course, of course. If they know you aren't afraid, they'll just go away. In fact, if you laugh at them, they'll be defeated. Dracula: Hurry, monsters, or else! Or else what, boss? Or else! Don't you know these stories? We have to be back home and in bed by midnight. It's the rule of the monsters. Yeah. ( whispers ) Here they come. Shh, quiet, everybody. - Hey, who-- - ( laughing ) It's dark in here. Hello, hello. I'm here to conquer the world. - Boo. - Aah! - ( blares ) - ( screams ) Ready, aim, pour! Move faster! You monsters are slow as molasses. It's not molasses, boss. It's honey. The witches are coming. We've gotta stop 'em. Patty, let me have that mic. Hey, thanks. ( imitating Dracula ) Calling all witches. This is your leader, Count Dracula, ordering a change of flight plans. Aim directly for the target below you and await further instructions. Miss Witch: Look out, boss! Aah! Quick, head for the clock tower. ( bell tolling ) What's happening, boss? I don't know. I guess time just flies when you're having fun. Oh, no. Oh, no! It's midnight. I am defeated. We must go back to Monster Mountain. You? Defeated? A vampire like you? Ha! There's always another inning! You'll be back at bat in no time. I set out to conquer the world and I've been defeated by little Ted E. Bear. I refuse to walk again. Ooh! Can I ride with you? Sorry, Chief. There's no room on the broom. ( cackling ) Oh, rat feathers. Mumpkin, pumpkin, make me a bat. The agony of defeat. Monsters would rule the world if it weren't for teddy bears. But I will be back, and I will succeed. I wonder. I wonder what would happen if we just once stayed out past midnight. ( chuckles ) I just wonder. Patty: This is Patty Bear reporting from Bear Square with another Bearwitness News exclusive. All of Bearbank is celebrating the victory over Count Dracula and his army of monsters. And here's the brave young bear who did it. Oh, Patty, those monsters were really nothing. Oh, come on, Ted E. It took bear courage to battle those monsters and save the world from nothing. ( music playing )