Transcript for Ten Violent Women (1982) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (birds chirping) - [Voiceover] Now, man. - [Voiceover] Hey, is this gold? - [Voiceover] Nah. - [Voiceover] This is hot, hot, hot. - Precious, old time, the atom bomb! - Dig over there. - [Voiceover] Precious, Kyle. - Hey, Tom, what are you doing? - Doing my job, okay. - Yeah? No you're not, are you gonna dynamite now? - That's my job, right? - No, not right, there are women in there. - No, this is the other wing, don't worry about it, okay? - Okay. (dynamite exploding) (coughing) - Penelope, breathe, breathe. - Where's Sam? Where's Sam? - Sam's in there! (screaming) (crashing) - Come towards there, it's not safe! - [Voiceover] Sam! - [Voiceover] What the hell took you so long? (coughing) - Sam, you made it! Oh, God! Oh, Sam! - Sam, Sam! - Do I look all right? (laughing) - Bastard and his explosives! - It hurts, it hurts, my ankle, it hurts. - Fuckin' son of a bitch, you almost killed us, now pack up your shit and get out of here! - Three weeks with no pay? I'm gettin' something! - Get your fuckin' hands off me, sucker! - Get out of here, Tom! - [Voiceover] Get him, girls! Come on, get him where it counts. Come on, get him where it counts, and make it fit! Go and get him. You rotten son of a bitch! - Beth. - Yeah? - We busted our asses the hard way and got shit. Now, we're gonna do it the easy way. - What way is that? - With class. - Oh, you mean... - Sheila. (upbeat music) - Good afternoon, ladies. - Good afternoon. (ambient music) - Good afternoon, ladies. May I help you? - Good afternoon, I'm miss Arnillo, and I believe that we have an appointment to see some solitarys and some solitary pendents. - Why, of course. I have an excellent selection to show you. Sheila, would you show the lady our Bismarck collection? - My pleasure. Follow me, please. This way. - Won't you sit down? - Take a chair please. I should be back directly. - [Voiceover] I'm sure you will find that we have exactly what you are looking for. - Oh, I do hope so. I just adore that big fat green one. - Our four karat emerald set in 14 karat gold. - Yes. - Oh, yes, with diamonds. Perfect for you. - Very well, this is one of our finest selections. You were interested in diamonds, were you? That's the bracelet. (birds chirping) Oh, you like that one? - Oh, that's lovely. - The sapphires here also set in 14 karat with three diamonds. - [Voiceover] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm not a Taurus. - [Voiceover] Oh, not a Taurus. (shouting) - What is that commotion out there? - Are you interested in tips of the diamonds? - Oh, yes. - These, we just procured. - Yes. - [Voiceover] Oh, but these right here say that you can continue looking. - So, now, that is the collection. How do you like them? - I love them. - I'll take them all. - Oh, very good. - Mill it up. - What? - I'll give you about three hot seconds to put 'em all in the bag. - All of it, come on. - Why are you doing this? This is very valuable jewelry, I designed most of this myself, you know? But these are very valuable things, miss, I... - Faster. - Okay, I, but these are all my... - Just get your skinny little ass in the back and we'll get the good stuff. - But I... - Move! - [Voiceover] No, may I, I don't... (honking) - Excuse me, do you have the time? Oh, what a lovely watch. I really admire a man with a lovely watch. Could you speak to me over here? - I parked the car here. - Well, where's the car, do you see the car here? - You girls are confusing me. - Not that, oh please, please, not that, no, no! - He will be our hostage. - You, in the vault. - The vault, no, no, no, please, please, not the vault, no! - [Voiceover] Move it, the vault! - Pick it up. - Yes. (upbeat music) - I have some friends, and you have this bet, and I noticed that you were from the east, and we really needed to know, does the Dromedary camel have one hump or two? It's been wonderful talking to you, but I have to go. Thank you. (buzzing) - Come on, let's not screw around here, let's go! - [Voiceover] Let's go for a nice ride. Las Vegas, here we come. - You bumbling, stupid idiot! I pay you to watch this store, not to chase girls down the street! You've ruined me! I am ruined, ruined! - Calm down! - Nearly one million dollars, my best collection! - I need a description, how many were there? - Sheila, oh, my God, there's a girl hostage! Is there, or were they, oh, there were three! Three of them, yes, three! - Two. - Oh, idiot, three, three! - Who's Sheila? - Well, she's my assistant, they took her hostage. - Then there were two of them. - I think there were four. - No, idiot, three, I don't know anymore, the whole thing's so confusing, it happened so fast, officer, I don't know, I best could have had four. (eerie music) My friend, my client, my sir, collection, it's stolen. They came in, well, I had no choice but to give them what they ordered me to. They've taken everything. I'm sure my insurance company will reimburse you for all that you've paid up. It was safe in the vault, but they took everything! - Everything? They took everything? - Everything! But I'm sure my insurance company will pay you back. Well, I'm sure they'll replace everything. - They cannot replace my master scarab. He will leave no stone unturned to find his ring. It was a sacred scarab. It took a long time to find and now it is gone. It grieves me greatly to have to tell him this. I have to go now. (contemplative music) - All right! - Hey, here's to that old jewelry goat! I'm gonna miss him. - Here's to the women, look out world! - [Women] Here we come! - Yeah! (mixed chatter) - You've got, oh, well, Joanie. - What am I supposed to do with the gun? - What do you think you're supposed to do with it? - You don't expect me to use it on somebody. - Well, if you don't know how, you'd better learn. - Yeah, I learned to shoot in the carnival. - I can whack those ducks off one after another, way past the freeway, I bet. - You need a real moving target. - Oh, a moving, we need a moving target. Well, why don't you run across there? Come on, Joanie, that's it, come on, Joanie. - You're always picking on me. - Oh, take a drink. Mama's milk. - Yeah. - [Voiceover] Okay, look at me, who can shoot? - I bet that if you picked out any leaf on that tree, I could get it. - A leaf on a tree, why not a man? Huh, can you shoot a man? Can you get him right in the gut and kill him? - When I was in Florida, I used to shoot ducks. I mean, wild ducks. - There's only one way to prove who's the best shot. - Right, get your guns and line up. - On the count of three, turn and fire! - [Voiceover] Ready! - One! Two! Three! (laughing) (upbeat music) (cheering) - The most important thing, money. - [Women] Money. - Here's to the jewels. To the jewels. - Ladies, ladies, here's to us. - [Women] One for all and all for one! (cheering) (telephone ringing) - Hello? Sure. Just a minute. It's for you. It's a broad. - Will you get lost, Vickie? Hello. How'd you get this number? - Well, from my ex-boss. Yeah, I know that he's done some business with you. - Yeah, what's his name? - Di-Di-Naw-See. Joe Di-Di-Naw-See. - So, what can I do for you? - [Voiceover] I got a little something I think you ought to see. - Yeah, like what? - Like a collection. It's worth about a million bucks. - You know Club Vertigo? - We'll find it. - What do you mean we? You'll be there alone, you understand? You'll respond to the gentleman who knows you work for Di-Di-Naw-See. And you meet with him. - This is my deal. Joe is no part of it, now nor never. - It should be there at 10. You take a table alone. And you bring with you your interesting collection. - He bit! Hey, he bit! Gonna meet him! - Hi guys! - Hi guys! (mixed chatter) - Guess what, we've got a meeting for tonight. - Oh, jack pot! - Oh, I don't have anything left. - Can you take this over, they'll be here in an hour. Get the girls out of the pool and get 'em dressed. Ah, come on, get 'em out, and get 'em ready. - Come on, girls, it's time. (upbeat music) - [Voiceover] They're up there now. I trust you'll not let them out of your sight. (mixed chatter) - Did you see that thing today in the grocery store, with her pockets full of money? Hot damn, two rooms. One to dress in and one to sleep in. - Except we're not gonna sleep here tonight. Soon as we wrap up our business, we're going to split, so girls, back up. - Come on, Maggie, Vegas is jammed, there can't be any problem in us hanging around here for a couple of days. - The quicker we get out of this town, the better. - I thought that was what this was all about. Cuttin' loose and doing our thing. - See, we've earned a break, let's enjoy it. - Bullshit, ladies, the games are over. We get caught with this stuff, we are all gonna do time. I mean, adventure and women's hood is one thing, this is quite another. - Maurice wants to thank you for the girls. - Sure. - He must conclude his business with you immediately. - Look, I made it very clear. They're honest like glue, and my street man has been hittin' and it's too dangerous, it's not the right time. - Your time is up, my friend. - But I can't risk it, I can't dump it now. - Perhaps you have some other more liquid assets? Holdings, jewels? Listen to me, I will call you tomorrow. Maurice doesn't like to be disappointed, and neither do I, so have an answer for me. - Now wait just a damned minute. (upbeat music) - You look like a friend of ours, oh, what's his name? - If you were a friend of ours, you wouldn't have to ask his name. - You're not Joanie, you're not? - Yeah, Joanie to the press. What about it? - Tell you what. Why don't you come with me back to my boss's place. I think I'd like to buy you a drink. - Come on, girls. - Wait, wait, wait, wait. You said you were gonna be all alone. Yeah, well, I'm not alone. - Sly. - Where I go, they go. - Jesus, does it take this many? Leo's gonna be pissed. - [Voiceover] That's good, let him handle it. Get in, let's go. - What the hell is this, I said alone. - All I got there, boss. - Shut up. You, Danny. - Yeah? - You get out on the front there with Bonnie and stay there. - Okay. - And you take the gold. - And you, stupid, I think you can make these girls' a drink. And then you hit the lights and watch the ground. You think you can handle that? You need it in writing? - Okay, okay, what's the big deal? - Hey, when you write my paycheck, you think for yourself. Until then, I do your thinking for you. Now let's see what you got. - Okay. - Doesn't matter, make 'em anything. Screwdriver, vodka and tonic, whiskey and a seven. - Oh, come on, dude, you know I'm not a bartender. What do I do? - Learn. - Yeah, nothing but the best. We know what we got. So do you, mister. - I didn't know exactly what to bring, Leo, so I thought maybe the girls would wanna mix their own. - Go for a swim, Vickie. - I don't wanna go for a swim! I wish he didn't have to act so mean. He doesn't have to, you know? I mean, he could be nice at least once in a while. - Bullshit. You got it the way you want it. If you don't like it, leave. - That's what we want for it, a million bucks. And frankly, it's a bargain. - Little red for me. - Fine, we'll go elsewhere. - Hey, Sam! - Now you hold it. I'll make you girls a trade. Street value, $500,000. Sweet from the pot. Another half or a cool million. - You've gotta be kiddin'. - What are you pulling, mister? - What is it? - Who knows, it could be anything. - This deal sucks. - Yeah, you know, it's beginning to smell around here. - Last and final offer. Another five for a total of a million five. I suggest you take it while you've got the chance. - [Voiceover] You go screw, mister! - I said that was my last offer. Maybe your boss would be glad to get this stuff back. - Now look, Joe didn't have anything to do with this. This was our deal. I told you so on the phone. - Well, let's ask Joe. - I wouldn't do that if I were you. - Why don't you girls leave that stuff where it is and get out of here while you're still healthy? A few bucks will get you started at the crap table where you can make some honest money. - Son of a prick! - I offered you the coke. - How do we know it's any good? - It's uncut. - How do we know what it's worth? - You take a chance. There's a lot of people out there in the street paying good money for that stuff. It's a hell of a lot easier to sell than jewels. And besides, if you can't sell it, you can have some fun. Take it and get out of here. (upbeat music) - Liz! - [Voiceover] She's been shot. - Get her out of here. - Hey Vickie. - Huh? - Thanks for the drinks. - Oh, you're welcome. - Jill, will you stop your blubbering? What happened to Beth could happen to any one of us, it's just the chance we took when we started. So, cut the crap! - Leave her alone, for God's sake. - And you, shut up! What good will crying do you? Joanie, will you stop that God damned bawling? You make me wanna puke! - Leave her alone, you stupid bitch! - [Voiceover] Get off of me! - No! Stop 'em, stop! Stop it, stop it! - All right, break it up, you guys. You can keep our share of everything. Jill and I are gonna take Beth and split. - Whatever's your share, we'll give to you somehow. - You know, to know is too clean, but with this bitch, we're all gonna get killed. - Get it in Joanie's car and get outta here. The rest of you, put your stuff in the car, and from now on, we're traveling light. (contemplative music) - Everything all right, ladies? - Just resting our eyes, officer. Come on, we're getting rid of this car, and we're getting another. - Take off your clothes. - What are you, nuts? - Get 'em off. - Okay, okay, take it easy with that gun. - You want some help? - I'm doin' it. - Give your clothes to her. - You guys aren't gonna leave me out here in the middle of nowhere, no clothes, no money. - Yeah, I think it's befitting nature, give 'em to me. - So, I'm choked out, right? - Wrong. - I think we ought to put him out of his misery. - Yeah, I think we ought to cool him. - Yeah, let him have it. - Oh, no, come on. Please, please, no, no. (ambient music) You fuckin' bitches! (contemplative music) - The best thing we could do is bury this stuff. - No, I'm using, what a jock name, shit. Oh, what a beautiful ring. - [Voiceover] Maggie! - She can wear it. There. (contemplative music) (cheering) - Jesus Christ. - Come on! - [Voiceover] Everything but this car. - [Voiceover] Joanie, come on. Some fool, somewhere. - [Voiceover] No, no! - Wanna buy me a drink? I got something I wanna talk to you about. - Have a seat. - I will have a tequila, a double. - Double tequila. - So, fellas, I... I have some good stuff. Are you interested because if you are not interested, I can skip. - We're interested. - How much you got? - I got a lot more than you two dudes can handle. - Maybe. How much? - Oh, thank you. Well. You see, it all depends on whether we are talking about a lot or whether we are talking about just a little bit. - How do we know if this is good stuff, huh? - Are you kidding? You will try it before you buy it. Why don't you guys meet me in the back, huh? Oh, and remember, gentlemen. Bring all your money. - Where in the hell did she go? - Probably out to get high. - It's the only way we can stand her anyway. - Well, I wish she wouldn't get drunk. - I'm gonna go check this out, you guys. - Just a minute. I got some good stuff. Try that before you buy that. You see, we really need... Oh, no. - Oh, you wouldn't believe it! - She's been shot, those were narcs. - Holy hell. - No. - We gotta get outta here. - Hold it! You're under arrest. Come with us quietly, no trouble. - Why, what for? - That's not a real gun. - I'm afraid it is very real. Your friend is dead. Now please. (foreign language) (bell ringing) - How long? - Start. - Okay, girls, in here. (buzzing) - Broke the line. Check in your valuables. Move, move. Check in your valuables. All of it. All right, calm here, move along. This way. (bell ringing) Keep moving. Step up, girls. Turn in your valuables and check out your linen. (buzzing) (mixed chatter) - Wait right here for your turn, girls. - All right, ladies, line up. I am miss Terry. And I'm in charge of this section. Now, I want you girls to know that I do not condemn your past mistakes. They were made out of a lack of guidance and love for your lives. It's my intention to see that you get to the proper guidance and love that you've been missing. I make it a practice to personally take time from my schedule to help any of the girls whenever they need, day or night. - Especially at night. - Feel free to come to me with any of your problems, and I know that we will solve them together. And if you cooperate, your stay where will be a happy one. It might interest you girls to know that I have a motto I live by. Today is the first day of the rest of my life. - Oh, shit. - God damn it, no one speaks while I'm talking! You understand that? All of you, I'm in charge here. Now, imparting, I would like to welcome you aboard. - All right, girls, get in your cells. - Summers. - Say, honey, you'd better watch out for miss Terry if you wanna stay healthy. And you'd better watch out for Madge, too. - Yeah, well, I can take care of myself. - I'm not jiving, you've been told, the rest is up to you. (bell ringing) - Welcome aboard? - You guys got that broad so screwed up, she thinks we're in the navy. - I can't believe Sheila pulled a gun on a narc. - And the coke in the purse, can you believe that? - Yeah, she had a gun and a million bucks in drugs, and we get stuck for it? - She really pulled a number on us. - We had no part in what she did. If they don't tie us onto Jewels, they can't hold us. - Are you kidding? People rot in places like this. They throw away the fucking keys when they get you in here. Well, they've got nothing to hold us on. We're breaking out. - Hey, I have to talk to you! - So, talk. - I've had several complaints come down from the head office. Nothing goes on in here unseen! And I want you to know that it's your section in particular that's under scrutiny. - Bullshit. (buzzing) (lounge music) - Anybody here seen Lina? - Who? - Lina Gonzalez. - She's just walkin' in. Hi. - Hi. - What brings you ladies to this lovely place? - One of our dear friends, Sheila. - We've had real good friends like that, huh? - Yeah. My name's Donna. - I'm Pam. - Well, I'm Nickie. - I'm master. - Joan. - I'm Sam. - Well you might as well know, you're a lot safer walking the slum street at midnight than you are in here. - 'Cause if the guards don't get you, inmates will. - You can learn to adapt to violence, or you won't survive. - I'm pickin' up some bad vibes from those chicks over there. - Oh, our soul sister. That's Jackie Kent. Now watch out for her 'cause she's miss Terry's pet. - Yeah, and that crazy one with the doll, that's Doris. She seems harmless enough, but she does anything Jackie tells her to do. - You've already made an enemy out of good old Madeline. She's hard enough to take as it is. - Just call her Madge. She likes to feel she's one of the girls. - She doesn't look so mean. - Gets her jollies from banging heads against the bar. - She's a hypocritical, religious old creep. She thinks we should suffer for our sins. - How about that other guard? - [Voiceover] Miss Robbins? Oh, she's nice to everyone. She can't go against miss Terry. - We've been here over a year. - And never heard of anyone skipping. - Why is it so difficult? - Well, the guards only carry the keys to the individual cells, so they're locked in the section like we are. - The guards on the other side can let them out, or else miss Terry does. - And miss Terry is the only one with a full set of keys. (mixed chatter) - Listen, if you do come up with a righteous plan, we can handle everything on the outside. - Meaning? - When we were busted for burglary, we didn't involve the others we ran with. - We were holding the stuff at our place. Tony and some of the other guys, they come see us every visiting day, and they are ready to help us anytime. - Next time Tony comes to visit you, tell him to get things ready. - All right, girls, lunch time's over! Come this way. On the double! - [Voiceover] Cut the radio! - Keep on going, Summers. All right, inside. Oh, you want me to help you? - How dare you enter this room without knocking. You will always knock before entering my room. Who is it? - Samantha Summers. - Come in. - You sent for me, miss Terry. - Please sit down, dear. You seem to be having problems. I'm here to help you. Do you want to talk about them with me? You know, we're all part of a team here. And though I'm in charge, I want you to think of yourself as a member of that team. You have to cooperate to be a member of my team. - Yeah, what do I have to do, play ball? - There are certain privileges that I give my special girls. - Such as? - The privilege of being in this lovely room. Private dinners where we're not disturbed, by candle light, and of course, your duties would be reduced. We can't have you too tired, you know? What do you say, Samantha? - The thought of you makes me want to throw up. I don't need your privileges or you, butch. - I have been too patient with you. You're begging for it, aren't you, I mean, you are really begging for it, aren't you? Well, I'm not going to give you the satisfaction of lowering myself to having one with you. There are some delicious punishments you can look forward to in the future. And my pleasure will be to see you crawling to be with me. - I'd never crawl for anybody, especially an old bitch like you. - Nobody talks to me like that! Don't you realize who I am? You'll crawl, and when I want you to, you'll crawl. Now get out! Get the hell out of here! - Donna? Donna, are you awake? Well, aren't you coming to see me? Well, what ya waiting for? - [Voiceover] Would you please stop that and put that baby to bed? (ambient music) - How much longer? - There's still these girls, probably 10 minutes. - Next four girls. - Hold it, hold it, you two get in the back of the line. - Why, miss Terry? - 'Cause this will teach you not to talk in line. - We haven't said a word, ma'am. - [Voiceover] Honest to God, we didn't. - No, they didn't, misses Terry. - I distinctly heard them, are you calling me a liar, miss Robbins? Next four. Inside. - They didn't say a word, misses Terry. - If you ever again have the insulance to ever, ever humiliate me, ever side with an inmate against me, I'll have your ass, baby, and that's a promise. - Hold it, sarge, you go after me and her. Are you hard of hearing or just plain dumb? - Go and be very shallow to kiss ass. (gasping) - There's a fight going on, I was just getting ready to stop it, miss Terry. - Let, can't some of them fight? - How did you know, but miss Terry... - Stop! Kent won't hurt Summers too badly. - Maggie! Maggie, Maggie! - Miss Terry, Miss Terry! - What is it, Madge? - Miss Terry, miss Cameron's making a round. She said she's heard all the noise. - Damn it. Rescue Summers. Robbins! - You, up against the wall, you stay there. - Best fighter, huh? - Miss Terry. You come with me. Miss Terry, what's going on in there? - Just a little commotion in the shower. - I wanna see those three girls in my office. - Come, then. - Robbins, what are you doing? She was just trying to help. - Bye, kiss ass. - What are you taking her for? She hasn't done anything wrong. - Now, Bree, you know the rules. We try to discourage fighting, why did you let it continue? - You know, I'm still in charge of this section. You have your job to do and I have mine. - That's just it, you're not doing your job. There have been far too many accidents reported from your section by doctor Dillon. - Well, I believe it's psychologically healthy for my girls to release their inhibitions, their aggressions, and their frustrations. - Doctor Dillon also tells me that some of the girls have unusual bruises that cannot be attributed to just fighting. - I can't imagine what you're talking about, my dear. - You know exactly what I'm talking about, my dear, and I'll have you up before the board by the end of the month. - Get in there, get in there, and don't you say a thing. We're going to redeem your soul. Down on your knees. - Go to hell. - I don't like violence, get down on your knees, and you pray with me. (ambient organ music) Dear God. Sweet, sweet Jesus. Hear the prayers of this unworthy sinner. You lead her out of darkness, smite her sins. Back up, hey, you suffered on the cross! Cleanse her! Smite her sins, dear God. The sins of mankind must be paid for or spirits cannot go into Heaven. - We're gonna straighten you out, Summers. We're gonna help you. - Oh, sweet Jesus who died on the cross for our sins, help me cleanse this girl of her evil. Help me cleanse it, and let the blood of pro wrecker side cleanse her of all that evil. - This is to match the whiteness of your alleged virginity. - Let her become clean like the blood of the lamb! Oh, let mankind see the suffering that you did on the cross. - But first... A little something to clear your brain. (mumbling) - [Voiceover] Let her pain and suffering. - Now, isn't your thinking clearer? I'll use this to whip the evil out of your body. And I use it because it doesn't leave any marks. - I'm gonna get you for this, Bree Terry. - The best part, I'm saving for you. For your long stay in solitary where no nosy doctor will see the marks. And I'll see this, and soon. - There! There, there. Oh, God. - If it hadn't been for Sharon, we wouldn't be in this mess. Not what we bargained for, sweetie. - All right, girls, line up in front of your cells. - Shut up! Stop talking! - A terrible act has been reported to me. A knife is missing from the dining room hall, and one of you is guilty. You know, I'm a very fair person, and I will allow the guilty one to come forward. I'm trying to be very patient with you, or you'll all punish the crime of one person. I would suggest the guilty one reveal herself. Madge, search the bunks. If that knife is not found within five minutes, they will all be punished! (mixed chatter) - Miss Terry! I found it. - Who's bunk is this? - It was in Benson's. - I see. - Oh, sure, you see, you were the one that put it there! - I've had enough insubordination from you, Summers! - You bitch! - You bitch! - Yeah, I'm all right. You get her in solitary! - All right, okay, girls, to your cells. - You got away with it this, boy, Summers, but I'll tell you, the next time, you'll spend a week in solitary like Benson! - Why Maggie? - Oh, man, she'd do anything for you. - Okay, girls, inside. Come on. - I hope you're quite comfortable. - Cell block one is clear, right Robbins? - Correct, come on, girls, step lively. - Moore. - All right. - Chapin. - Okay. - Kent. (ambient music) - You see, miss Terry? Miss Summers is really quite a good worker when she applies herself. - Yes, Madge, but she could work faster. - I suppose she could clean this entire corridor by herself before lunch. Nobody told you girls to stop working! - Madge. Suppose you take those two girls to another area. And we'll let Summers prove your faith in her. - All right, girls, clean the upstairs hall on the double. - That mop is awkward, isn't it, my dear? Perhaps you'll find the scrub brush just a little easier to handle. You'd better get started, Summers, if you wanna finish in time for lunch. And by the way, Benson sends you her love. She wishes you were there. We had quite nice, long visit last night, miss Benson and I. I intend to visit her every night. Can't you imagine the fun we'll have? I've told her you'll be joining her in solitary. Do try not to disappoint her now, dear. Well, well, look who's here. If it isn't our good friend, Joanie McClean. - Yeah, just when I was thinking of having a little McClean fun. - I'm particular about the company I keep. - Why don't you take this mop and clean the floor? - Screw you! (brass music) - Damn it! I'll go on the way down, we'll get her. - This exit corridor is secure. - I've been waiting for a chance to talk to you. Something has to be done about Bree Terry. That woman is sadistic and psychotic. Well, how can we hope to help any of these women with someone like her in a position of authority? - As far as I know, her records show that she's dependable. After all, some form of punishment is necessary. - I was there. - Are you sure? - That's the room that leads to the corridor that leads outside, I know it. - Then that's the door we escape by. - It's locked. - So, we'll find a way to open it. - [Voiceover] All right, girls, in your cells! Move it, in your cells. Move it, on the double! Maggie McMahon, you're coming in here. - You can't do that! - Now don't you play rough. Make yourself at home, sweetie, we're gonna have some fun. - Sam! - You say black bitch, you go to hell, I'll kill you! - God, what are they doing? - No, no! No! - Now we'll see who's gonna screw who. - Unlock this door! - Shit, that's just terrific. Really screws us up. (contemplative music) - This will be your home, Summers, until I decide to move you back to your cell. We three are going to have such fun for the next two weeks. - Madge? Can I borrow your bauble again? - Well, have you accepted Jesus as your personal savior yet? - I'll try. - Follow me. - Listen. Tony came to see us while you were gone. They're gonna help us just like you asked. - Did you tell him we need clothes and everything? - Yeah, but some guy with a beard stopped him in the parking lot the last time they were here. Started asking him a lot of questions. - Like what? - Like who they were here to see, if they knew the new girls. - They were cool, they played dumb. - Are you sure we can get along with these boys? - Yeah, they're gonna meet us just like we planned, a half a mile south of here in the clearing. Got everything we need, but it's up to us to get there. - How do you know you can trust 'em? - Hey, they love us, and they gave their word. - And it doesn't matter if we can trust 'em or not because tomorrow, we're breaking out no matter what. - Sam, everything depends on you gettin' the keys from miss Terry, are you sure she's gonna see you? - You just worry about Robbins getting you out of Kent's cell while Madge is on her break. - And you do understand you take orders from me? - Yes, miss Terry. - Now that that's clear, good night. - Just a couple of minutes, miss Terry. - I'm very tired. - Please, miss Terry, this will only take a few minutes. - Well. We'll see how well you take orders, first. Crawl, Samantha. You heard me. Do it. I'm waiting. Would you rather go back to your cell? Lower. Down on your stomach. Oh, that's it. Crawl up. (sobbing) - Robbins, Robbins, come here quick! - She'll have to wait 'til Madge gets back. - Damn it, Robbins, she's not jiving! It looks like she's got appendicitis. Now get her out of here so we can get back to sleep. - Okay, go get her. Put her over to the side and get back in your cell. Okay, you, you walk ahead of me. - Oh, oh. - How about a drink, miss? I'm gonna kill you! (suspenseful music) - Hey, what's going on? Hey Robbins, what's going on? What are you guys doing? (contemplative music) - Are you all right? - Boy, am I glad to see you. Get her. - Stop squirming around! Okay, get her belt. Put her in here. - [Voiceover] Get her. - We'll send you a post card, Madge. Let's get out of here. - Come on. (suspenseful music) - [Voiceover] Hurry up, come on. - [Voiceover] What if the car's not there? Always right outside the gate. (toads croaking) - Hey, hey! - [Voiceover] I knew you'd be here! Told you Tony would keep his word. - [Voiceover] Let's throw it in the trunk. - Okay, let's go. - Get everything. (upbeat music) - Mister, could you give us a lift? - Yeah, our ride dropped us here in the middle of nowhere. - Aren't you going our way? - [Voiceover] But of course, my dear ladies. I would love to give you a ride. - Okay. - [Voiceover] We need to stop at the dry river bed up the road. - [Voiceover] Hope you don't mind, it won't take very long. - What is this? It's gotta be here, we put it right under the pipe. - Damn, I haven't been through all this hell for nothin'. - I'm so glad to be alive right now, I don't give a damn. - The stuff can't walk off by itself. - She's right, it's not gonna go anywhere. We'll come back when no one's looking for us. - Let's go. - One more stop, a little cantina not far from here. (acoustic guitar music) - All right, thank you. - [Voiceover] God, it's beautiful, look at it. - [Voiceover] You found it. - [Voiceover] Yup. - Nice, such excitement. - [Voiceover] Well that was by accident. - How beautiful. Where would you get such a ring? - From a very rich boyfriend. - It's fit for a king. - Speaking of king, how about a king sized bed for 12 hours? - Oh yeah. - Oh, this is ours. - Good night, you guys. - Good night, see you in the morning. - So, it works for a traveling show. I don't know if I believe that or not. - Well, at least we've got beds for tonight. - Yeah. - Well, I'm taking that guy's words, it's about time we had a little luxury. - For sure, I wonder what time the gift shop's open in the morning. - God. This calls for champagne. - Yeah. - Yeah, and hamburgers, and french fries. - [Voiceover] And potato chips. - Right. - [Voiceover] And milkshakes. - Yeah. - [Voiceover] And parsley, and rutabagas, and tuna fish salad sandwiches. - Good. - [Voiceover] And units. And marshmallows. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - And salad. And ice cream cones. - I think you're breaking my ribs. - Do not have success yet, but I have seen it with my eyes. We shall soon have it. That is my promise. (eerie music) (screaming) - Turn on the light. You gotta call the desk. Call the desk. - Oh no, Maggie, I don't think we'd better do that. That could have been anybody, and if the police get involved, they could wrap up our act. - Okay, but I'm not going to bed for the rest of the night. Call the desk and see if they'll send up some playing cards. (upbeat brass music) - It's your turn, Maggie. (knocking) Got any bars? - Good morning. - Hello. - Why, thanks. How do you like it? - Look good. - Pretty snazzy. - [Voiceover] Get up, the sun's shining. - Yeah, and we're gonna split. - You're what? - Yeah, we're gonna split. - The bad guy told us he could use only two girls in his show. So they offered to buy us anything we wanted. - So we bought everything we wanted. - Nice shoes. - By the way, I talked to Carol and Joanie, Beth is fine. - Great. - All right. - Far out. - Wish you guys luck. - Yeah, we'll see you around campus, okay? - Bye bye. - [Voiceover] Thanks. - Bye kiddo. - [Voiceover] You played your part well in assisting the escape. Be sure they have the ring, then get them to the dock. There, I will have a proper reception awaiting them. - [Voiceover] It shall be done. - Yes, can we have two coffees please? And two orange juices and some rolls? - And cream cheese. - And cream cheese. (lounge music) Room 1015. - Snap it up. - Thank you. (knocking) That's what I call service. Entree! - I am so sorry to disturb you ladies, but I do not bear good news. Your two friends have left the hotel, but not before they charged many expensive items to their bill. I am but the show's manager, and I am not able to cover the bills. Perhaps you have some way to assist paying for them? - We don't have a dime. - Someone's lying. - Our company is entertaining on a pleasure boat for a few weeks. Perhaps you would be willing to work? - A boat? - A big boat? - A very nice boat. We are leaving for the Mediterranean in two hours. - We'll meet you in the lobby in 30 minutes. - Make that 20, we'll be ready. - A boat. (upbeat flute music) - The steward says he would have passage for you if you'd be willing to work. - Oh, yeah, yeah, we'll work, we can do anything. - Oh, we can do anything, we'll wash cars, dishes, anything. - You say you'll do anything? - No. - Yes. - Yes. - Yes, we'll do anything. - Can you dance? - Can we dance? - [Girls] We can dance. - Oh, yeah, we can, oh, we can dance, you wouldn't believe it, oh, we just, right on, oh, fantastic, oh, yeah. - Oh. Then you're welcome aboard. - [Voiceover] Ah, thank you. (upbeat music) - Any sass are, I want you to prepare these women for this evening's entertainment. (foreign language) (upbeat music) - The officer is here to arrest you girls. However, since I have recovered all of my jewels, and all the other jewels have been returned to their rightful owners, and I now have recovered my precious scarab ring... I've decided to drop all charges against you girls. - In that case, you won't need me. - Thank you. Now, shall we have a little wine and prepare for our pleasant journey ahead? (upbeat music)