Transcript for Blood & Donuts (1995) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Aldrin: Okay. 75 feet. It's looking good. Down a half, 6 forward. Man: 60 seconds. Light's on. Forward. Forward. 40 feet, down 2 1/2. More forward. Drifting to the right a little. Picking up some dust. Make shadow. Contact lights. Okay, engine stop. We copy you down, Eagle. Houston, uh... Tranquility Base here. The Eagle has landed. That looks beautiful. It has a stark beauty all its own. It's like much of the high deserts. It's different, but it's very pretty out here. Beautiful view. Isn't that something? Magnificent sight out here. Magnificent desolation. ( "Mr. Sandman" playing ) ♪ Mr. Sandman ♪ ♪ Bring me a dream ♪ ♪ Make him the cutest that I've ever seen ♪ ♪ Give him two lips like roses and clover ♪ ♪ And tell him that his lonesome nights are over ♪ ♪ Sandman ♪ ♪ I'm so alone ♪ ♪ Don't have nobody to call my own ♪ ♪ Please turn on your magic beam ♪ ♪ Mr. Sandman, bring me a dream ♪ ( women vocalizing tune ) ♪ Mr. Sandman ♪ ♪ Bring me a dream ♪ ♪ Make him the cutest that I've ever seen ♪ - ♪ Give him the word that I'm not a rover ♪ - ( man grunts ) ♪ And tell him that his lonesome nights are over ♪ ♪ Sandman ♪ ♪ I'm so alone ♪ ♪ Don't have nobody to call my own ♪ ♪ Please turn on your magic beam ♪ ♪ Mr. Sandman, bring me a dream ♪ ( women vocalizing tune ) ♪ Mr. Sandman ♪ ♪ Bring us a dream ♪ ♪ Give him a pair of eyes with a come-hither gleam ♪ ♪ Give him a lonely heart like Pagliacci ♪ ♪ And lots of wavy hair like Liberace ♪ ( bones crack, grunts ) ♪ Mr. Sandman, someone to hold ♪ ♪ Would be so peachy before we're too old ♪ ♪ So please turn on your magic beam ♪ ♪ Mr. Sandman, bring us ♪ ♪ Please, please, please ♪ ♪ Mr. Sandman ♪ ♪ Bring us a dream. ♪ ( whimpering ) ( rock music playing on radio ) Thank you. ( breathing heavily ) So you got, like, a destination? Westview Cemetery. Looks pretty closed to me. I'm sorry. It's cool. You know, I've been there. Guys got this thing about crying. Man, it's just emotion. ( grunts ) My dog died. ( exhales sharply ) You know... I wouldn't trust a guy who couldn't cry. No, 'cause the thing is, we're just human, huh? That's all. That's who we are. We're human. It's a little old. ( chuckles ) I'll say. The Queen, you know, she looks good. Listen... no offense here, but you going to Westside and all, you look more like a customer than a visitor. Do you know what I'm saying? I-- I'm just-- are you okay? Well, uh... you take care, huh? Yeah, okay. Fucking tourists. ( dispatcher talking indistinctly over radio ) ( grunts angrily ) ( Screamin' Jay Hawkins' "I Put a Spell on You" plays ) ♪ I put a spell on you... ♪ Where the hell's the cabdriver? Hey, sweet cheeks. We're looking for our old buddy Earl. Have you seen him tonight? No. Shit. I thought this bunghole was his second home. It's not his message center either. Is that a fact? Well, let me tell you something, sweetie, tonight it is. So when Earl drags his sorry ass in here to stuff down some of these shitty doughnuts, you tell him his pals want to meet him outside the Linsmore at 10:00. Now you think you can remember all that, sweetheart, or should I write it down? You can write? I'm impressed. Man: We got a problem here, Molly? Just give Earl the message. It's not worth it, Molly. Yeah, yeah. ♪ Oh, you were a vampire ♪ ♪ And, baby, I'm the walking dead ♪ ♪ I got the ways and means ♪ ♪ To New Orleans ♪ ♪ I'm going down by the river ♪ ♪ Where it's warm and green ♪ ♪ I'm going to have a drink ♪ ♪ And walk around ♪ ♪ I got a lot to think about ♪ ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ ♪ There's a rocking chair by the window ♪ ♪ Down the hall ♪ ♪ I hear something in the shadow ♪ ♪ Down the hall ♪ ♪ Oh, you were a vampire and now I am nothing at all... ♪ Rita... A cruller. Make it two. Crullers aren't done yet. What do you mean the crullers aren't done yet? Uh, exactly what are you asking, Earl? You want me to repeat my sentence? Mollys, me, I am a working man. I do not have all night to sit here, wait for my cruller. Gee, Earl, I guess it's a question of sorting out your priorities. Okay. Gimme a glazed. Mmm. By the way, Pierce and that other jerk were in here earlier looking for you. What did they say? Wanted you to meet them outside the Linsmore at 10:00. Christ, Molly, why didn't you say something sooner? ( groans ) Listen, Molly, if they come back, tell them I moved. You know, tell them I died. I love you. ( el train clattering ) ( siren wailing in distance ) Hey! ( groans ) Ah. My favorite cabby. Earl, why is it every time I see you, you seem to be on your ass? Pierce, how are you? I was just coming to see you guys. Well, of course you were, Earl. But we came to see you first. That's how fucking considerate we are. Get up. We're going for a drive. ( siren wailing in distance ) ( light rock playing on radio, baby crying ) Hi... there. You got any rooms available? Depends what you want it for. To... dress in? ( sniffing ) ( indistinct overlapping voices ) ( animal squeals ) ( squeaking ) ( moans ) ( The Platters' "It's Twilight Time" plays ) ♪ Heavenly shades of night are falling ♪ ♪ It's twilight time ♪ ♪ Out of the mist, your voice is calling ♪ ♪ 'Tis twilight time ♪ ♪ When purple-colored curtains mark the end of day... ♪ Pierce: Pull over. Earl: Oh, look, Pierce, there's a hydrant. Fuck the hydrant. Thing is, you know, I never had a ticket. Just park it! Now, we're going in there to collect some... rent. You keep this shit box nice and warm for us. Think you can handle that, Early boy? My hat. You stay the fuck put. Are you inferring to me? Are you-- - ( gunshot ) - Whoa! Oh, that's not good. Ah, jeez. Okay. Said to wait-es. I wait-es. And then, like, a cop car came by. Yeah, that's it. That's it, a cop car. ( chuckles ) I then, you know, figured circle the block, right? Lower my profiles. I must have circled that block I don't know how many times. Uh, scoured it like some kind of cleanser. Then I figured you guys-- you guys must've resorted to, I don't know, plan B. - ( door opens ) - Yeah. The cemetery-- what's its name? The old one. Westview. ♪ Deep in the dark your kiss will thrill me ♪ ♪ Like days of old ♪ ♪ Lighting the spark of love that fills me ♪ ♪ With dreams untold ♪ ♪ Each day, I pray for evening ♪ ♪ Just to be with you ♪ ♪ Together at last at twilight time ♪ ♪ Together ♪ ♪ At last at twilight time. ♪ Excuse me. Any place around here... one can get some liver? I realize it's late. We sell doughnuts. Coffee and doughnuts. Any, uh, all-night-- - All-night grocery? - Grocery. Couple blocks down. Liver, I don't know. Likely only got it in cat food. Was hoping for fresh. Understandably. This used to be a bar? Used to in the '60s. Risk it. You only live once, right? ( chuckles ) Kind? Thank you. ( chuckles ) Of doughnut. Raspberry, blueberry, cherry, plum, pear, peach, apple, apple honey, honey lemon, lemon banana, pineapple kiwi-- ( grunts ) Kiwi. Yeah. You know, like New Zealand? They sound familiar. They're new. Okay, I'll have a kiwi. Brave man. 75 cents. Oh, yeah, and once you're done, you mind writing down your impressions? Impressions? Of the doughnut. And try to be honest. Man: Axel, have you any idea why they make people wear bowling shoes? So, uh-- so they don't fuck up the floor. So they don't leave marks. Yeah, right, that's what I meant. Give me your shoe. Come on, come on, give me your shoe. ( sighs ) This shoe. Now you see the difference? Mine... left a mark. Whereas yours... left a smudge. Most people have some dignity. Most people long to leave a mark. If it were just a question of smudges... They wouldn't need the bowling-shoe rule. You do not make a mark in this world by letting people walk all over you. Deal with Earl. It's your call how you do it. But I would hate to see this happen again. And incidentally... We have an image to maintain. Take Axel shopping. Get him some decent footwear. Looks pretty closed to me. Déjà vu. Here. You sure about this? You meeting someone? I don't think it's too smart, you know, you going in-- wandering in there all alone. Do you want I should wait? Do you think that would be fair to you? And if I didn't return, would you not become just a little bitter? Must be tourist season. I don't know. You know, the wise thing would be to disappear from the face of the earth. You know anywhere? Tough question, Earl. Do I know of anywhere? What, uh, happened? Molly, you don't want to know. You're probably right, but I figure it's only polite. These guys, you know, they're real tough guys. You, here, environment protected. You know, sometimes I ask myself the question why do I try so hard to accommodate jerks? Now, I only work here, but Bernie owning the place has the firm belief that any jerk off the street deserves at least a well-made doughnut and a safe place to eat it. But the thing is, Earl, in your case-- and this is something specific to you, I don't really want to know your problems because your problems are like bacteria-- just breathe on them and they multiply. Well, that's why they're problems, Mollys. You see, that's what true problems are all about. Can you talk to Bernie, please? - Don't drag Bernie into this. - You are not hearing me. - Oh, I'm hearing you. - You are not hearing me. - I'm hearing you. - You are not hearing me. I am hearing you, I'm just not listening. So this is what they teach you in those books you read, how to be cruel to a friend in need. Hmm? ( man clears throat ) Oh, look, it's the boys. Want a doughnuts? You know, it is very fascinatings what happened to me. A cop car came by, so I figure, you know, circle the block, right, lower my profiles. ( door closes ) ( Earl grunting, blows landing ) ( Axel laughs ) Interesting move, Earl. Here, Earl, let me help you clean up a little bit. No, no. ( screaming ) This is our business. Don't make it yours. Get out! Okay, okay, all right, just let them go. You're gonna regret this, Earl. ( groans ) Fuck you. Mollys, you got to get a load of this guy's teeth, like a goddamn shark tooth. Watch, watch, watch, watch, watch this. ( clears throat ) Excuse you. Could you give us a smile? Coffees. Man, I gotta tell you something, you know, me, I'm a man of the world. I've seen a few things, but nothing like that outside. You know, you really scared the shit out of them, you know, with the-- the-- the thing ( voice echoing ) with the blood and the fingers. You know, I couldn't see that clear, but, you know, the sense that I got when looking at you was, you know, wow, nice moves. ( spoon clanking ) ( hisses ) ( lighter flicking, clicks ) ( jangling ) ( rustling ) ( slurps ) ( heavy breathing, heart beating ) ( normal audio ) You know, you want to take it with a grain of salt, but I got to warn you, these guys, you know, they got no hesitations. They'd just as soon as off you for a walnut cruller. So, where you... from? It's a long story. You know, I got all night. You'd need all night. Well, I got all night. I have these conditions. I black out. So tell me, what is your modus operandi... so forth? You know... for money, what do you do? You got a job? One gets by. You see, you are a man after my own heart. Me, I try to explain these things to Mollys all the time. Do you expect those people back? Yeah, you know, maybe not here, but probably trashing my place right now. Thing is, they're immature, right? They don't know how to properly deal with complications. I loathe that, you know? I loathe-- Mollys, more coffee! You're friends? We're not screwing it, if that's what you mean. I asked are you friends. Friends, you know, friends-- the thing is, you know, friends is a loaded term. I mean, to tell you the truth, basically, I think she thinks, me, I'm a jerk, but, you know, I mean, if the opportunity was to present itself... ( knocks on table ) You know. ( chuckles ) But, you know, I mean, me, I'm not responsible for these psychos she's dated. I can't be responsible for the entire male species. You know, to be honest with you, I think we're way too similar. Mollys, you don't technically hate me, do you? Technically as opposed to what? I'm Boya. Boya Boya in the house. I'm paid to tolerate that. If you're... serious about the trouble of going home, you can sleep on my floor. I've rented a room down the street. Nothing fancy, but if you're in that sort of need... Really? Well, you know, can think about its. ( gasps, whimpers ) It's nothing. It's just a rat. I'm just not fond of rats, is all. ( squeaks ) You find it? Blood? It bit my lip. For just getting bitten, you seem pretty blissed. Nostalgia. I worked in the field some years. Extermination. I've been bitten, stung, clawed, constricted. You know, I'm gonna have to say yes to that offer. What are you doing down there? Molly: Bernie keeps promising to exterminate the place. Just like to know when, you know. I guess everybody has their problems, not like I'm special. Everyone's special. Yeah, well, I've heard that one, too. It's what I believe. All I believe. Every human life. So you're one of those, huh? One of what? A humanist. ( Earl laughing ) ( cartoon sound effects on television ) ( The Platters' "It's Twilight Time" plays ) ♪ Heavenly shades of night are falling ♪ ♪ It's twilight time ♪ ♪ Out of the mist, your voice is calling ♪ ♪ 'Tis twilight time ♪ ♪ When purple-colored curtains mark the end of day ♪ ♪ I'll hear you, my dear, at twilight time ♪ ♪ Deepening shadows gather splendor ♪ ♪ As day is done ♪ ♪ Fingers of night will soon surrender ♪ ♪ The setting sun ♪ ♪ I count the moments, darling, till you're here with me ♪ ♪ Together at last at twilight time ♪ ♪ Here in the afterglow of day ♪ ♪ We keep our rendezvous beneath the blue ♪ ♪ Here ♪ ♪ In the same and sweet old way ♪ ♪ I fall in love again ♪ ♪ As I did then ♪ ♪ Deep in the dark your kiss will thrill me ♪ ♪ Like days of old ♪ ♪ Lighting the spark of love that fills me ♪ ♪ With dreams untold ♪ ♪ Each day I pray for evening ♪ ♪ Just to be with you ♪ ♪ Together at last at twilight time ♪ ♪ Together at last at twilight time ♪ ♪ Together ♪ ♪ At last at twilight time. ♪ Boya? ( baby crying ) ♪ Mr. Sandman ♪ ♪ Bring me a dream ♪ ♪ Make him the cutest that I've ever seen ♪ ♪ Give him the word that I'm not a rover ♪ ♪ And tell him that his lonesome nights are over ♪ ♪ Sandman ♪ ♪ I'm so alone ♪ ♪ Don't have nobody to call my own ♪ ♪ Please turn on your magic beam ♪ ♪ Mr. Sandman, bring me a dream... ♪ ( women vocalizing tune ) I suppose you've never done that. ( sniffing ) Earl. You look good. - ( grunts ) - Sorry. ( horn honks ) Hey, Earl! We need your trunk! Aw, come on, the guy's wrapped. There won't be any leakage. Oh, you guys-- you guys are history. No, you know, it's worse than that. You guys are prehistory. My buddy will have this whole neighborhood in his back pocket in a week. No, a day. One day. Excuse me. You get in his way... ( engine starts ) ( coffee pours ) Special tonight. Bodyguards drink free. Thank you. Old flames? ( sighs ) Reminiscing. Each time you turn your back, a few more... gone. Makes you want to withdraw. Yeah, well, can't go through life afraid to connect because the thing might end, right? Not might. Sit. If I want to sit, I'll sit. You look tired. Damn right. No sleep. Normally I sleep like the dead, but-- Insomnia? Bad dreams. I believe dreams are a dialogue between the body's mind and soul. You tell me your dreams, and I'll tell you what your soul thinks. ( chuckles softly ) Believe me, whatever my mind and soul have to say to each other, it's a private conversation. ( bell dinging ) What do I have to do around here to get some service? Oh, those are good. I used to use one of those to clean my teeth. Just in time for a little batting practice. ( hissing ) ( screaming ) Nice performance. What's the secret? I worked in a circus once. I thought it was, uh... e-extermination. This was before. Guess you used to be everything, huh? One time or another. Fluid. First he crushes bats with his hands, and now he's like fluid. Yeah. Like fucking... fluid. Are you in your own impoverished way trying to describe some kind of martial art? You want we should put this hotshot on ice? You grew up in Toronto, Axel. Who here talks like that? Am I employing retards? I have nothing against retards in general. I just can't afford to employ them. Unless I'm the retard. Am I the retard? Axel, will you excuse us for a moment? In this case, that means you leave. Yeah. You settle the score with this Earl. But-- and I say but-- if I sense you relinquishing the neighborhood... I'll handle it. You do it. Because you know what, Pierce? I've got some up-and-comers working for me, guys who are really hungry for some career advancement. I'll handle it. Good. Stop! Here, take it. Hello, Boya. Rita. I'm so glad to see you. I can't believe-- well, at least you recognize me. I would never forget you. Then why didn't you take me with you? I couldn't wish this on you. How did you find me? You're in my skin. Rita, please. I can't believe it's actually you. 25 years. I didn't mean to hurt you. Oh, I've always felt that decency should come before self-interest. That night, I was very discouraged. A simple call, a note to let me know? The first several years, of course, were the hardest. I'd think I'd glimpse you in a crowd, though you never liked crowds. Or I'd be in a park. 100 yards off, a man would be standing, watching me, and I'd approach. I had to, on the chance. Once I got within 15 feet before I realized it wasn't you. It was very embarrassing. The things men said, the propositions. Had I not been pretty, it might've been far crueler. I'm sorry. Do you like me now? I swore I wouldn't. I'd die before. ( gasps ) I won't have you ignore me! ( groaning ) Don't believe everything you're told. ( screams ) Boya: Earl? Oh! We got bats! Okay... ( panting ) Oh, look, a pigeon. What the-- hell happened to you? What happened to you? What? Earl. You're home early. You get knifed? What? Knifed? What? Broken shovel handle. You know... when I try to collate it... You know we got a bat in the place. - Really? - Yeah. So when I come in, I see it, and your shirt with the blood on it, you know, and then thinking of the time, you know, with the teeth, and also when you look, you know, someone the wrong way, you know, I'm thinking... You know, I'm glad you're my buddy. You know, barrel of thanks, but... the way you act, you know, sometimes. How do I act? Well... No offense, but... kinda... like, um... vampires. ( stammers ) Okay. Okay. Okay. Mmm. Then how-- how come, you know, you haven't gone for me? Hmm? Why? Well, Earl, you're appealing. Thank you. But it's like an addiction. You have a choice of whether or not to submit. Like with you and doughnuts. ( laughs ) Doughnuts. Yeah, right. Except with you is people, right? People... die, huh? That was another time, another century. ( chuckles sadly ) Help me. I'm losing my mind, man. I can deal with-- I can-- I can-- I can deal with that. It's fine. Ease up on the stimulants. Oh, man, you're one to talk, you know? Okay. ( clears throat ) Stress, man. It's what it is, you know. My mind is not total pliable. So cracks-- cracks can occur. You know, cracks. I tell you something. I'm... willing to give it a try, do what I can to extend my, uh, you know, disbelief. Uh... You want I should take you to a doctor? I heal quickly. Yeah. Right. Vampire. Yes? Excuse me, would you have a cigarette? Sure. I was like you once. Skin so elastic. I only needed water. Didn't have these. ( chuckles ) Well, we all age. No, we don't. Not all of us. I don't know what he promised you. He turns his back. You think beauty's enough? You think you can coax him with your beauty? Wasn't I beautiful? Wasn't I someone whose beauty deserved more time than it got? Oh, the Linsmore. ( inhales sharply ) Okay. Sorries. You know, I 100% forgot. No. It's okay, I... I was just startled. I didn't realize. I drifted off. Sorry. I mean, I just get to know you, I almost kill you. So stupid. It's sensitive, but, you know, within reason. Got you a new shirt. Thought you could use it, you know. - Really? - Yeah. ( grunts painfully ) You look good. Thank you. Oh. Oh, right, right, right, right. So I bet it's past your bedtime. I... You know, um-- you know, maybe what I could do is, you know, go back to my place, check it out, you know. Probably been trashed already, but here, you know, I overstayed my hospitality. No. It's been nice to have someone to talk to. Uh... I think I should go now. Don't worry, I'll come back again, you know, see you soon. We should put you to bed. Good night. ( sighs ) Jesus. Did you get any sleep? Not much. You look at. What do you think a person's capable of, like, with focus, years, years of concentration? Could somebody be able to physically do shit which should be impossible? And if they do, then do they remain human? We sell doughnuts. Coffee and doughnuts. Depends what you mean by "human." You really aren't a day person, are you, Boya? I'm not a person, Rita. I had qualities, Boya. Possibilities. I was Winter Carnival Queen two years running, proposed to three times. I didn't know depression. I typed 80, 90 words a minute without one error. Rita! You still have qualities. You cannot imagine what it's like to get up every morning knowing that possibility existed. I could've had all the time in the world. I could've had all the time in the world! Why couldn't you give me that? I'd give no one that. I want you to finish what you started 25 years ago. Remember, Boya? Remember the night they walked on the moon? Oh, God, it was so exciting. Everybody was so happy. Except you. There you were all alone in the corner. You said, "They've ruined it," like the moon was some kind of holy ground or something. You were celebrating. How could I take you away from that? I remember I was shocked at first. I mean, I thought you were just nibbling me. Then I felt your teeth in me. God, I was terrified. But I remember even then, even then when I was so scared, you were rubbing me. Rita, I did love you. Everywhere your hand touched, I could feel this warmth. I could feel it moving all through me. Stop! That's exactly what you did. You stopped. Just when I started to feel my old life leaving and a new one coming on, a better life, a longer life. That's true, isn't it, Boya? Vampires live forever. If they want to. Boya, do it now. No. No? And why would that be, Boya? Wouldn't have anything to do with a certain little waitress, would it? Because if it does, you can forget it. I've taken care of that. What? I was that pretty once. - No! - ( gunshot ) ( grunting ) ( groaning ) We're looking for a couple guys. You want the place down the road. Oh, no, you don't understand. What are you looking at? ( groans ) Molly! Boya? ( screams ) The light... daylight... Boya? It's okay. I'm dying. ( grunting ) I'm sorry. Tried to control it. I tried to control it. Not again. No, no, we found him. We just think you should come along, too. I think you'll find that what I have planned will be quite... amusing. - ( dogs barking ) - ( grunting ) ( siren wailing ) ( indistinct voices ) ( dogs barking ) ( grunting and laughter ) Stick out your tongue. Well. You must be our other friend, the bat man. Perhaps you should've stayed in the circus. - Get up, Earl. - Okay. Sit down, Earl. ( roars ) - ( screams ) - ( screams ) Earl... ( screams ) You can't kill someone who's not alive. ( groaning ) Didn't realize when you actually done someone, it would be-- be so-- ( groaning ) Earl! You see? I told you I'd handle it. Know what this is? Quince jelly. It isn't this color. I got to add the red. Tastes great, but if I put in the yellow and all, they won't go near it. They fear the unknown. But add red and call it passion, and they'll eat it all night, can't get enough of it. You'll see when you get their impressions. Impressions? Yeah, of the doughnut. Bernie? I gotta cut out a couple of minutes. I'm going to take the car, okay? Yeah, yeah. Earl? Okay, it's okay. I'm all right. Boya... what's, like, your take on heaven? Heaven? Are you-- are you afraid to die? ( pained grunting ) Earl?! Oh, my God. ( engine starts ) ( coughs ) ( gasping and grunting ) I was thinking-- I was thinking... after I croak, I mean, go ahead. Help yourself, okay? Just make sure... I'm all gone. Sorry. Can't take blood from a dummy. ( gasping laugh ) Don't-- don't make me laugh, Boya. It'll kill me. ( chuckles ) You're not afraid to die? No. Gotta go sometime, right? I mean, it's only human, huh? ( screams ) ( thunder rumbles ) Earl? What did you do? He just stopped. When he went, how did he go, exactly? Like ( grunts ) or ( gasps )? You know at least how long ago? Go open Bernie's trunk. Quick. Stand back from the car. Come on. Come on. Come on Come on. - Come on. - ( electricity crackles ) ( man vocalizing on radio ) ♪ Blue moon... ♪ ( wheezes ) ( coughs ) Hey! ( coughing ) - Earl... - ( laughing ) Yes! You did it! Ah! That feels crazy! ♪ You saw me standing alone... ♪ Earl... ♪ Without a dream in my heart... ♪ Walnut cruller... ♪ Without a love of my own... ♪ Now. I loves yous. I love yous, Earls. ♪ ♪ What I was there for ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ You heard me saying a prayer for ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ Someone I really could care for ♪ ♪ ♪ But then there suddenly appeared before me ♪ ♪ The only one my arms will ever hold ♪ ♪ I heard somebody whisper, please adore me... ♪ There's room in the trunk. Right. The trunk. Help me with Earl. Put your arms around me. That's it. ( engine starts ) You know, Mollys, when I said back there I love yous-- Earl, stick a cruller in it. ( The Platters' "It's Twilight Time" plays ) ♪ Heavenly shades of night are falling ♪ ♪ It's twilight time ♪ ♪ Out of the mist, your voice is calling ♪ ♪ 'Tis twilight time ♪ ♪ When purple-colored curtains mark the end of day ♪ ♪ I'll hear you, my dear, at twilight time ♪ ♪ Deepening shadows gather splendor ♪ ♪ As day is done ♪ ♪ Fingers of night will soon surrender ♪ ♪ The setting sun ♪ ♪ I count the moments, darling, till you're here with me ♪ ♪ Together at last at twilight time ♪ ♪ Here in the afterglow of day ♪ ♪ We keep our rendezvous beneath the blue ♪ ♪ Here ♪ ♪ In the same and sweet old way ♪ ♪ I fall in love again ♪ ♪ As I did then ♪ ♪ Deep in the dark your kiss will thrill me ♪ ♪ Like days of old ♪ ♪ Lighting the spark of love that fills me ♪ ♪ With dreams untold ♪ ♪ Each day I pray for evening ♪ ♪ Just to be with you ♪ ♪ Together at last at twilight time ♪ ♪ Here in the afterglow of day ♪ ♪ We keep our rendezvous beneath the blue ♪ ♪ Here ♪ ♪ In the sweet and same old way ♪ ♪ I fall in love again ♪ ♪ As I did then ♪ ♪ Deep in the dark your kiss will thrill me ♪ ♪ Like days of old ♪ ♪ Lighting the spark of love that fills me ♪ ♪ With dreams untold ♪ ♪ Each day I pray for evening just to be with you ♪ ♪ Together at last at twilight time ♪ ♪ Together ♪ ♪ At last at twilight time. ♪ ( Concrete Blonde's "Bloodletting" plays ) ( slurp ) ( woman laughs ) Ow! ♪ They used to dance in the garden ♪ ♪ In the middle of the night ♪ ♪ Dancing out in the garden in the middle of the night ♪ ♪ Oh, you were a vampire ♪ ♪ And I may never see the light ♪ ♪ Oh, you were a vampire ♪ ♪ And I may never see the li-i-i-ght ♪ ♪ I got the ways and means ♪ ♪ To New Orleans ♪ ♪ I'm going down by the river ♪ ♪ Where it's warm and green ♪ ♪ I'm going to have a drink ♪ ♪ And walk around ♪ ♪ I got a lot to think about ♪ ♪ I got the ways and means ♪ ♪ To New Orleans ♪ ♪ I'm going down by the river ♪ ♪ Where it's warm and green ♪ ♪ I'm going to have a drink ♪ ♪ And walk around ♪ ♪ I got a lot to think about... ♪ Oh, don't mind me. I got a bullet in the head yesterday. Not 16 hours ago. That must have hurt. Well, not actually in. More I guess off of. They catch who shot you? Oh, no, no, no. The shot in the head, that was self-inflicted. I could tell you one fine story, though, make your toes curl. ( chuckles softly ) What are you looking at, young lady?