Transcript for The Morrison Murders: Based on a True Story (1996) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [music playing] This will only take a minute, sugar. KIMBERLY: I hope so. Here, boys. Daddy? RADIO ANNOUNCER 1: 73, smooth and easy. RADIO ANNOUNCER 2: Well surprise, we got a warm front passing through eastern Georgia this afternoon. Temperatures are up a little on the average for this time of year. We're cool and-- Kimberly! Kimberly? KIMBERLY: What is it, baby? Oh. They're dead. What? Mama and Daddy and Bobby, someone shot them. [honking] Patty! Patty! Luke, what is it? Uh, uh-- What? - They're dead. - Who is? What happened? Someone shot his Folks What? Garth and Flo are dead? And Bobby too. Did you call the sheriff? Well, go in and call the sheriff. I'll call the dispatcher and get them to call Walker and get him home. Someone take care of those dogs. There's a kennel in the back. Whoa. Kid says there's three down that he saw. Walk around? No. My guess is he's out on the road. Let's go. Come on, boys. George, take the back. - Let's go. Frank, check that side. All right, over here. 10 hours at least. Byron. He never felt a thing. What a terrible waste. Poor Flo. If there's a heaven, she's bound to be there now. CLYDE (VOICEOVER): Walker, you copy? Walker Morrison, you copy? Walker here, Clyde. How's it hanging, boy? CLYDE (VOICEOVER): You got to come home. There's some trouble at your parents' place. What kind of trouble? What's going on, Clyde? CLYDE (VOICEOVER): I don't know anything about it, partner, honest. The Sheriff's there. We want you back. OK, you tell him I'm three hours away. Out. Luke, do you have any idea who might have done this? Um, no, sir. Do you think they could come back? I mean, if somebody's killing Morrison's, maybe we're next. I don't know. Where's Walker at? PATTY: He's on his way. Would have killed Luke too if he'd been home. Who could have done this? Daddy, he had his enemies. You know, it could have been another trucking outfit or-- Were there any drivers your daddy had a fight with? I don't know. Did you ever hear anyone threaten your daddy? Nobody. Who? Who? That'll calm ya. Help you sleep. Well, we believe they were killed the night before you found them. Now, do you remember seeing any strange cars parked on the road? I've been at Kimberly's. I hadn't been home in, um, in a couple days. Couldn't we do this in the morning, George? Yeah. I should get back to the house. Slow down, Walker. Slow down. - What's going on, George? You can't go in right now. - Where's my mama? You can't go in right now. I'm sorry. - Mama! Daddy! - You can't go in. Walker, something terrible's happened. Your Mama and Daddy are dead. Young Bobby too. Someone shot them. No. I'm real sorry, Walker. I want to see them right now. Not right now. Look, we're gathering evidence. What about Luke? Where's Luke? Luke's the one to find them, Walker. He's over at your place. Why don't you go see him? He needs ya. You go to sleep now, sweet pea. Mama, what's wrong with Uncle Luke? Never mind that now, OK? We'll talk about it in the morning. Why don't you go climb in bed? - OK. Go on. Oh, Walker, I'm so sorry. Where's Luke? He's on the couch. I was at Kimberly's when it happened. I came home, and check in before I went on my run. I just wish I could've been there, you know, because then I could-- You could have been killed yourself, Luke. I'm here now. We're gonna find out who did this. You just get some sleep. Come on. We'll talk tomorrow. Lay down. Come on. You just rest. So, it looks like they must have shot Garth dead in the hallway, then continued on to Bobby's room, shot him. Then on into the parents' bedroom, they shot Flo, wounding her first. She must have tried to use the telephone. They found her bloody prints on it. The killer or killers knew what they were doing. No spent shells, no fingerprints, no signs of forced entry. Nothing seems to be missing from the house, so we can rule out robbery. We need some theories, boys. Well, you know how old Garth was. It wasn't love that built Morrison Trucking. Yeah. I think it was someone they knew. Stranger never could have got past those dogs without waking everybody up. Who could have got past the dogs? Well, couple of neighbors, cleaning lady, Luke. And Walker. Why don't you, uh, why don't you try to eat something, Luke? It's funny. Just the other day, Daddy was talking about how he was going to take us up to that rodeo up in Stanton. I just-- I still can't believe he's gone. That was the funeral home. Somebody has to pick out some clothes for them all to wear. You're more familiar with where their things are, Luke. I can't. I don't ever want to go in that house again. You can stay here as long as you want, right, hon? Of course, you can. You can have the room in the basement. You can have it as long as you need it. I'll get Aunt Clara to pick out some clothes. Morning, Patty. Morning, Byron. Walker. How are you holding up? Lousy timing on my part, but I have some questions for you. Well, uh, come on, come on in, Byron. Well, it might be best if you come down to the office. OK, I'll get my keys. You know what? Why don't you just ride with me. We can talk on the way. What's going on? It's just routine, Patty. We have a lot of blanks to fill. You don't think my brother had anything to do this, do ya, Byron? It's OK. I'll be back in a little while. If you were up state at the time of the murders, show us a gas receipt. I already told you, Byron, I already fueled up before I left. What about a receipt from a diner? Patty packed my meals. You didn't check in with anyone when you picked up your load? - No. They left it for me in the lot. Why do you think I'd kill my family, Byron? Morrison Trucking would be yours. Your daddy leaned on you all your life, Walker. We all know that. We all understand why you'd want to put a stop to it. Look at this. Roll grime. I got dirt on my truck. This company is going to hell in a hand cut. You don't even make a decent trucker. You know what? You do it. I'll go work for somebody else. You know, you still ain't too big to take a hog's strap too. Yes, I am, Daddy. You walk out of here now, that's it. You get nothing, you leave now. You go now, this is it. Nothing. You're right. My daddy did lean on me all my life, Byron. You know what? I could take it. After I went back to work for him last year, thinks were good between us. He lost that mean streak, and now, he's gone. You're free to go, Walker. You've had him in there for six hours. A man who just lost most of his family. For someone who's supposed to know people, Byron, you sure missed on this one. I'll be checking out your alibi, Walker. And I think it's best if another driver makes your out of state runs. I'll find out who killed my family, Byron. Looks like someone left Mama's nightlight on. Spooky, isn't it? Someone's still in there. You haven't been inside? No. I can't face it. We'll get someone to go in and clean up after Byron says it's all right. You know, here's Billy Tedhauser. He had it in for Daddy. What was that trouble? Daddy caught him switching some old tires for some new ones, and he fired him. Billy said he'd kill him. I don't think he'd have it in him. But if they hated Garth, why kill Flo and Bobby? So there wouldn't be any witnesses. Luke, how you doing? You got anything over there? No. I've looked until my head hurts. This whole things been really hard on Kimberly too. I should really go how she's doing. tonight. I'd be nice if we could all stay together as family for a while. It's OK, Luke, go ahead. Just don't forget, you got the big Fern Nicker load you gotta take up to Toronto on Thursday. Can't Willy take it? I just-- I don't feel up to it, man. Well, OK. It's going to take both of us to look after things. I mean, that's what Daddy would say if he was here. Business first. Doesn't matter what's happened when your top $300,000 this year, you know? Yeah. That's what he'd say. Into your hands, oh, merciful, Savior, we commend your servants, Bobbie Jo, Rita Florence, and William Garth. Receive them into your mercy, into blessedest rest and everlasting peace. Let them rest eternal, oh Lord, and let life perpetually shine upon them. I'm never gonna see Grandma and Grandaddy again? No, honey, they've gone up to heaven. They're with angels now. We commit their bodies to the ground and their souls to the glorious company of their angels. Go on, Luke. I can't. Thanks for calling. Hey. Luke, you all right? Can you get up? I'm fine. Come on. Mama's looking down on you, what do you think she'd say? Hey, Walker, you know they're saying the sheriff's checking you out. What? You a murderer, Walker? Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hey. It's all right. It's all right. I'm gonna puke. You never could hold your beer. Come here. Thanks, brother. I'm sorry, Walker. You gotten nothing to be sorry about, Luke. We've all got to get through this in our own way. I just don;t want you to hurt yourself. You're a good brother. Always looking out for me. Come here. I don't know what I'd do without you. I love you, man. I love you too. Come on, let's go. Let's get outta here. Give me your hand. There you go. You all right? Yeah. I'm all right. Come on, get in the truck. So, you'll each be entitled to half of the company, all of its assets, and your parents' home and property. Walker, as the eldest, you become the executor of the estate. That means, Luke, that he'll hold your money in trust until you come of age at 21. OK. Um, I just don't really make all that much money from driving. Daddy always used to give me an allowance. I can't even just get a little bit of that money to live on? Well, there is something else. Your daddy had a life insurance policy. He named Luke and Bobby as beneficiaries. $200,000. Since Bobby's gone, it all goes to you, Luke. Well, Jim, why Luke and Bobby only? Well, it was when you had that falling out about two years ago, and you went and drove for that other company for a while. Your daddy took your name right off his policy. I remember that. Daddy said he was going to take you off the will too. He said he was writing up a new will, but he never submitted it to me. Man. Well, you know how Daddy was. One day, he's mad at ya. Next day, he's your best friend. He's probably all just talk. Boy, $200,000. For real, I can certainly live on that. We found the UPS guy that had delivered a package of flower seeds sometime between the murders and when the bodies were found. - Yeah? He didn't see anything. Byron, the new forensics. They found blood traces in the basement. the killer went to the basement after the murders. Yeah? Why would he do that? Steal something? Hide something? Get Charlie D in here. I'll be back in an hour. Well, where you going, Byron? I think I'll go fishing. Hey, look who's here. I wonder what he wants? Hey, Byron. Boys. Any news? Nothing yet. We, uh, checked the list of names you gave us. We're checking out some leads. Little like hunting rabbits. You've got to eliminate every bush till you find out where that rabbit is. Sooner or later, though, we'll get a break. Right now, the polygraph man is down from Atlanta. He wants to test everyone connected with the case. I'd appreciate it if the two of you would come in. Both of us? Yeah. They want to do everyone. I gotta service the truck for that Stevenson load up to Kansas City this afternoon. I could maybe do it sometime next week. No, no, this is more important. Let's cooperate. Willy can take that load. Clear our names so he can get on with his investigation. Come on. I'll meet you down there. Is your wife's name Patty? WALKER: Yes. Do you have green eyes? Yes. Is there any information you're hiding about the murders of your parents and brother? No. You know, I've been thinking about it, Byron. Daddy kept a lot of things from us, but he had these dealings with this Cincinnati company up in Chicago a while back. They were mafia, you know? He cut off business with them all of a sudden, and-- you know how stubborn Daddy can be sometimes. I just-- I get the feeling that this whole thing is a mafia hit, you know? CHARLIE: Whenever you're ready. I mean, you all should check that out. We're ready. Just relax, Luke. This will only take a minute. You wearing a black t-shirt? Yes, sir. CHARLIE: Did you drive here today? Yes. Do you know who murdered your parents and brother? No, sir, I wish I did. Just answer yes or no. Sorry. How'd it go? It was good. Great. It's weird, though. You get hooked up to that machine, I swear, it doesn't matter if you're innocent. You just start to feel all nervous. Well, thanks for coming in, boys. I'll keep you informed about the investigation. Byron, take a look at this. Here and there. Oh no. Oh. Look at that one, sugar. You like this one? Uh-huh. I do. It matches my boots. It suits you. You can get. May I help you, son? Well, sir, I believe I'm going to have to buy this car. Well, let me say that you have made a fine choice, and that you're a lucky man, because on this little sweetheart, I could offer you reasonable monthly payments. Well, um, I was thinking actually that I don't really want to make monthly payments. Well, how are you supposed to pay for this son? You all do accept cash, don't ya? I always wanted to do that. GEORGE: How long has your daughter been dating Luke? About a good nine months by now. It's a terrible shock to think something like this could happen. Kimmy will tell you it's almost destroyed the boy. Do you have any suspects, sheriff? No one we can talk about yet, Mr. Granger. Now, on that night, Luke slept here. Yes, that's right. He'd do that from time to time. Down here on the couch. Kimmie, of course, was upstairs in her room with the door closed. Yes, but, are you sure he was here all night? You're not thinking of Luke? Oh, ma'am, it's just routine. We have to eliminate everyone. See, there's one thing that I don't understand. How is it you can be sure that he was here all night? You were asleep. I got up a couple of times. He's up every two hours with his kidneys. I checked on Luke every time, and the boy was on the couch. Mr. Granger, is it possible that he might've gone out for a couple hours, and you didn't know? I'd have heard him. I'd have known. Sheriff, I had a beautiful young daughter upstairs and a healthy young buck downstairs. Believe me, I had have known if he'd set one foot off this couch. I'm telling you, the boy was here on the couch all night long. Well, it'd be 50 minutes each way at the speed limit. Yeah, at the speed limit. The last thing the boy'd want is for a trooper to pull him over. How long you figure in the house? 20 minutes. 15 at the least. So he'd had to be gone two hours. We should go back and time Granger's kidneys. Yeah. All right, let's walk this thing through again. Hey, Patty. Walker. What brings you all out here? Well, we were having another look through the house. Yeah? And what? Did you find something? First piece of hard evidence. We found it in Bobby's room between the mattress and the headboard. Well, that's great. Can you connect it to the killer? It's a 16 gauge. We're going to put it through ballistics comparing it to a short barrel Remington, one of the guns in the basement. Walker, do you know the last time that gun was used? No, I don't. It was cleaned recently. We believe that the killer was very familiar with the house. Now, if it is the murder weapon, the killer found the cleaning materials, cleaned the weapon, and put everything back in its place. Woohoo. [honking] Hi. There is something else I should tell you. Luke failed the polygraph. He's now our prime suspect. What? You must be crazy, Calhoun. Hey, Byron, how's the investigation going? Getting real close, Luke. Real close. We'll be in touch. Uncle Luke. Uncle Luke. I am in love. That little sweetheart's got 350 cubic inches, 325 horse, pure power. You want to take her out? Yeah, yeah. Not right now, Luke. What old Byron have to say? Found a shell casing in Bobby's room. 16 gauge. Says it's a real good lead. Yeah? All right. That's good. It's about time he did something, huh? Well, that is a beautiful necklace. Isn't that nice? Luke bought it for me. He's such a sweet thing. It's real 18 carat gold. And a diamond watch, too. It's Swiss. Luke's got one too. You're just all set now, aren't ya? Who wants to make some lemonade? Me. I do. Oh, yeah, I betcha I'll beat you there. That 16 gauge is Luke's gun, isn't it? Now, what, you, you, believe Luke killed Mama and Daddy and Bobby? I don't know, but I think it's not impossible. Hey, that's the craziest thing I ever heard. That test don't mean nothing. Byron went after me. Now, he's going after Luke. He's running around in damn circles. Did you hear what he was saying? It was someone who knew the house, knew the gun. I don't want to hear anymore about that. That's enough. Yes. The property is gorgeous. I have several buyers up in Atlanta who I know will be interested in a property like this. We should have no trouble at all. Daddy was so proud of this big house. Lots of good memories for me growing up here. Three bedrooms, is that right? Uh-huh, two little ones upstairs. The master bath is nice and big. There's room for a Jacuzzi. Nothing's changed. Like you could almost think it never happened. Here, take this carcass, Walker. Well done there, Lucas. You got your first turkey. Make a hunter out of you yet, boy. OK. Thanks. Bye, now. You know, my daddy cleared this land and built this house brick by brick all by himself. It's a family home, and I don't think I can sell it. Truth is, the thing that wold make me happy is moving back in here. Yo want to live here? We could do it. Hon, we could sell the house in town, got the office and the shed's right here. We got the woods and the fields. I mean, this is where the kids should grow up. They'd love it here. I don't know if it's such a good thing to do. Maybe it's the best thing to do. It's a way to face up to what's happened here and put it all behind us. I don't know if I can. Well, Patty, I really think that we can be happy out here. I mean, it's what my Mama and Daddy would have wanted. Can we just give it a try? What on earth would possess you all to move in that house? Well, it's the practical thing to do, Luke. Why don't you think about moving back into your old room? Luke couldn't live in that house after what he saw. I'm surprised you can. I won't go in that house, let alone live there. Y'all knew that. Luke, anyway, you got a room there anytime you want to change your mind. Hi, Patty. Byron. Let me give you a hand here. Thank you. Another gorgeous day. Sure could use some rain though. Byron, you didn't come find me to talk about weather. I just went by the house, but I guess Walker's out on a run. It's been confirmed, Patty. The murder weapon was the 16 gauge from the basement. That's Luke's gun, isn't it? I don't know. I guess he used it sometimes. What Luke say when he found out we had the shell. He didn't say much. Said it was good. Good? What about Walker? He, uh, give any more thought to what we told him? You're going to have to ask him. Isn't that Luke's stuff? Yeah, I'm gonna send it on over to him. Well, hold on. I've been talking to him. Maybe he's going to change his mind. Walker, I don't want Luke living with us. I don't even want Luke around after what I've been told. After you've been told what? What are you talking about? The lab confirmed it was Luke's shotgun that killed your folks. Who told you that? Byron. Byron told you that? What's Byron talking to you for? That son of a-- Luke's here! Hey, how you guys doing? Good. You miss your Uncle Luke? Yeah? I got something for ya. Housewarming gift. Well, that's really nice, Luke. You didn't have to do that. Hey, not a problem. Can we tell them now? I've asked Kimberly to be my wife. You actually want to marry this no good pea picker? You know I do. Well, I'm happy for you all. Lord knows we can give you some happiness in this family. Yeah When's the big day? Can we come? Sure, you can, baby doll. Planning to do it this Saturday after next. So soon? I don't see no reason to wait. Do you, sugar? Walker, I'd, um, appreciate if you'd be my best man. Well, it'd be an honor. Daddy wanted yo u to take that money, go to college, make a better life for yourself. I got a good life, bro. I got money. I'm marrying the most beautiful girl in the county. Well, how much of the money from Daddy's insurance you got left now? That's my affair. Well, he'd gone crazy see how you're spending it. Well, Daddy's not around anymore, is he? Why you marrying Kimberly? Look, I'm not saying nothing against it. If you're happy, Luke. But you know what Mama would have said, Kim a Methodist and all. Man, I swear you are sounding more and more like Daddy every day, you know that? I mean, you're not a quarter as bad as he is yet, but you're headed in that direction. And I'm not a kid, Walker. I'm not asking for your permission. Luke, I just want you to be happy. That's all. Kimberly? Do you think this is such a good idea? So soon after the murders? Getting married? Luke seems to think it's a good idea. Well, I mean, with the case still open. You know they're investigating Luke? Everybody knows that's ridiculous. Are you sure you want to marry him before he's cleared of the crime? Of course, I am. Life has to go on. That's what Luke says, and I agree with him. I think, it's a good idea. Luke, before we go back in, I gotta talk to you about something. Byron told me you failed your polygraph test. I know it's stupid, and things are all screwed up. It's that Byron, he had it out for me. Now, he's got it in his head it's you, and I just want you to clear your name, all right? So he can get on looking for the real killer. Now, I checked it out, you can go to Atlanta, and they can give you a more complete test. I won't to go to Atlanta. I know you don't want to go to Atlanta, but I'm going to take care of the expenses on this one. It's a waste of time and money. It's not going to mean a thing. I'm innocent. I don't give a damn if some sheriff don't believe that. Do it for me. All right, we don't even got to tell Byron. Just take that test for me? I ain't gonna do it for you. It hurts me that you'd even ask. I'm not going, and that's it. Luke, I'll tell you what I'm going to do. You go to Atlanta, and I'm going to sell one of the trucks and give you the cash as a wedding present, OK? I don't give a damn about your money. One of the trucks mine anyway. Whole damn companies mine if I ever find that will. Hey, Luke, you don't do this one thing for me, then, I'm sorry, I don't think I can be your best man at your wedding. Honey, Kimberly is anxious to get started. He ain't coming, Aunt Claire. He said he wouldn't, and he's not. I can't believe he'd miss his own brother's wedding. What is going on between you two? You best ask him. He's so damn stubborn. Let's start. Uncle Luke caught the biggest catfish in the whole pond. No, he didn't. Yes, he did. You know what I did? I grabbed onto him, yes, sir, and he grabbed on to me, and we grabbed onto that big old tree by the pond, and we pulled that fish to the shore. Did not. Yes, we did. And then you know what else happened? Mama cooked it up, and we fed half the county, and-- No, you didn't. Yes, we did. Still had some for breakfast, didn't we, Mama? OK, come on, time for bed. You think they're married yet? Well, I don't know, buddy. I feel bad we couldn't go too. Sometimes grownups just disagree on things. All right, you two, come on. It's time to brush your teeth. Suck your blood. Come on. Goodnight. Oh, you're getting big. Mom, can you read us a story, please? Walker, you ruined the most important day of my life. Will you keep your voice down? Everyone's coming into the church all asking me where's Walker? What am I supposed to tell them? Well, Luke, you made your decision. I made mine. Now everyone's starting to think you're against me. Oh, Luke, your brother's not against you. Well, someone around here is. You? You and your little friend, the sheriff? Tell me something, Patty? Do you think that it was right that my brother never came to my wedding? Sure, you do. Walker can do no wrong. You know who you remind me of? Mama. You could be just like her. Bobby this and Bobby that. Mama's sweet little Bobby. Bobby could do no wrong either. Well, let me tell you something, sis. Walker, my brother. That's a bond that's stronger than any marriage. So don't you think that you can ever come between us. You understand? Walker, you're supposed to be the head of the family now, and instead, you're tearing it apart. I'll tell you the rumors are flying. Some say it's money, some say you just hate the Grangers, others have it you're in love with Kimberly yourself. Oh, come on. As if this family hasn't had enough tragedy. Just what is going on between you two? You want to know what's going on? Luke failed his polygraph test, now Byron's suspects him. Of the murders? I want him to go to Atlanta, take another test, clear his name. He won't do it. He refuses. But you must know in your heart Luke had nothing to do with it. I want some answers, Claire. Hey, Wilma? Yeah? Hey, where are Bo and Michelle? Didn't Uncle Luke pick them up at lunch? I thought I saw that car of his. Walker! Walker, he's taken the kids. - Who? - Luke. He took them out of school hours ago. I called the house, there's absolutely no answer. Kimberly doesn't know where he is. Ah, he probably took them for a ride. He loves those kids. I'm going to find Byron. Don't involve Byron. Are you coming or not? Patty? Patty? How long they've been gone? Just since noon. I'm sure everything's fine. Yeah they'll turn up. Best thing for you to do is go home. They might be there or they might call. George? No, no, I would really like to go with you and look for them, please? That's our job, Patty. You go home. Come on, he's right. Let's go. Bo? Michelle? Bo? Oh. Walker? It's OK. We'll find them. They'll be all right. Come on. Surprise. We got you so good. Parked the car in the shed so you couldn't see it. Where were you, Luke, and what were you doing? We were driving around in the car. Seeing the sights. Is there something wrong? Yes, something's wrong. What were you thinking of? You didn't realize how upset we'd be? No, I didn't. I'm sorry. I would have had them back sooner, it's just we were having too much danged fun, weren't we, guys? Yeah. I don't want you around my family anymore, Luke. You understand that? I beg your pardon? You stay away from us. Patty. Oh, don't, Walker. You don't want me around here anymore? No. Well, then that's the way it's gonna be. Patty, honey, Luke's my brother, and I'll deal with him, OK? Can't you see he's dangerous? He threatens me, he takes off with the kids. What does he have to do? Kill us all? You listen to me. My brother loved my Mama and Daddy and Bobby. Now, you're asking me to believe that my little brother killed my whole family? I can't do that. I'm sorry. Walker! Hey, man, you feel like going where you're going? Oh. Thank you. Have a safe trip. OK. What do you want? Just thought I'd come over for a visit. Walker's going to be gone until tomorrow morning. I thought we'd have some privacy. I told you not to come around here. Yeah, well, I think you and I got some things we need to talk about. I have nothing to say to you. Well, I do. I ain't leaving until we reach an understanding. All right, then, I'm just going to go inside, and I'm going to check on the kids, and then we can talk out here. Patty, if you don't come back, I will come in. Hello? Is Byron in? Can you radio his car and tell him to get out the Morrison place as quickly as he can? Thank you. Why don;t you come on over here and sit down? What do you want to talk to me about? You really think I killed my folks? Because if you do, that hurts me. You think that I went in there with my shotgun and I blew them all away, Bam. Bam. Bam. Mama and Daddy, sweet little Bobby, and the other day, you thought I might even hurt your kids. Me. What kind of person do you think I am? And I can see that you're scared I might hurt you, my own sister-in-law. You're trying to turn my brother against me, break up what's left of our family. You think I might hurt you. Well, that hurts me, Patty. When are you going to stop hurting me? [siren] Man, what'd you have to go and do that for? Was just having such a nice little chat. What are you doing, Luke? Just having a little visit with my sister. Did you invite him? No. Did you ask him to leave? Yeah. Well, that sounds like a case of harassment to me. Get in the car. You can have a little visit with me. I'm not going anywhere with you, Byron. Is that a fact? Uh-huh. You've got a choice, boy, you can get in that car by the time I count to three, or you're gonna be picking gravel out of your backside for the next week. One way or another, we're going to have a little chat. One, two-- All right, Byron, I'll play your little game. I'll see ya soon. Get in the car. OK, Luke, we want you to go through it again. We've got a few more questions. Nothing to hide. Who's he? I'm the man with the questions. Where is he? Byron. Where's my brother? We're asking him some questions. Well, let me talk to him, because this is going to stop right now. Coming around scaring Patty? Yeah, she's got good reason to be scared. I don't want to get into that again, Byron. This is family business. Just let me take him home. First, I want you to listen to something. Come on. All right, again. After you turned the corner? I told you. I saw Daddy in the hall. I went up to him. I saw he was dead. Then I went in Bobby's room, and I saw Bobby on the bed. I went up to him, but I didn't touch him. I knew he was dead. Who's he? FBI Special Agent Fraser, criminal psychologist. LUKE: I hate talking about this. AGENT FRASER: Did you go into the big bedroom? I told you no. I turned and ran. I don't remember much then. All right, all right. All right, what if I told you that your prints are all over your Mama's bedroom door? Yeah, so what? I lived there. I went in my Mama's room all the time. But on the day, the day you discovered the murders, did you go into your Mama's bedroom? I don't remember. It all happened so fast. It all happened so fast is not going to cut it with us, Luke. You're going to have to remember. I don't want to remember, don't you understand that? Sit down. Now, did you go into your mother's room? Yeah. Maybe I went in the room. Yeah, you'd have to. You'd have to be right beside her. I mean, you told the sheriff that you looked right in your Mama's eyes. You'd have to be standing right over her. FLO: Now, you eat up all of your French toast, Bobby, honey. I made it because it's your favorite. Hey, where's my French toast? FLO: You're late. You can have cornflakes. That ain't fair. BOBBY: Hey! Mom! FLO: Luke, what have you done? You don't give a damn about me. FLO: Luke. Luke, did you kill your mother? No, sir, I did not. I could never have killed my Mama. It's just that I have trouble remembering, is all. I blocked it all out. Yeah. Yeah, I remember, I was inside the room. Did you, uh, see the name she wrote? What name? On the headboard. She wrote it in her own blood before she died. What if I was to tell you that the name that she wrote was yours? I guess that's 'cause Mama loved me best. AGENT FRASER: I think you're lying to me now. Mama never wrote no name on any bed. You guys are grasping at straws. That means you ain't got nothing one me, ain't that right? Walker? Yeah? I need your help. You may be walking out of here this time, but just remember something, Luke, there's two people in this world who knows who killed your family. I'm looking at one and you're looking at the other. What the hell you doing? Looking for Daddy's will, what the hell you think I'm doing. Hey, Luke, you want the whole company, huh? You want the trucks? You want everything? There's no will here. I need money, Walker. You had $200,000 and you blew it all. Stupidest thing I ever saw. You're talking like Daddy again. I hate it when you do that. - Yeah? Like you hated him, huh? Like you hated Mama and Bobby? Oh, that's right. Now, you're thinking about it, aren't you? You're wondering did Little Luke do it? Did you do it, Luke? Oh, what do you think? You think I did it? I don't want any games, Luke. It's just interesting to me to see the faith that my brother has in me. Sheriff's been working on Patty, Patty's been working on you. Get your hands off me. Walker, where-- You're gonna come in that house, and you're going in those bedrooms and you're going to show me what you saw. No. I ain't going in that house. I'm not going in that house, Walker. Show me, and tell me that you didn't do it. Did you do it? You believe what you want to believe, big brother. Do what you gotta do. Stop, Walker! Don't, Walker. Please, don't do this, Walker. Just let him go. Let him go, please. You take two of the Macks. That's your half. You send Willy or someone around tomorrow to pick them up. I'll sign the papers. They'll be on the front seat. Then I don't owe you anything. I never want to see you again. You understand? OK. If you come back here, Luke, I'll kill ya. Hey, Byron, how you doing? I thought you were up in Atlanta? Yeah, we were, but, uh, we're back now. Staying up in the Winborne place. This here's my boy. Ain't he a cute little devil? Luckily, he got his looks from his mama. We've got to straighten something out, Luke. It's all very well talking out here in the street like this, showing off your boy, but nothing's changed. Just so you don't misunderstand. Morning, Walker. Hey, Byron. Patty said you might be here. That's nice of you, Byron. You know, uh, my mama's over there by those trees. I even have a plot of my own. I like to know where I'm going to end up. I'm no rush, you understand, but my line of work you never know. Saw a mutual acquaintance of ours in town yesterday. You know Luke's back? I heard something about it. He call you yet? No, he won't. I hear he's out of money, that's why he's come back. Sooner or later, he'll call ya. I know who killed your family, Walker. Deep down, I think you do too. Luke belongs in prison. Nothing's going to bring my family back, Byron. No, but I think it's the only way your Mama and Daddy and Bobby can rest in peace. Hey, pal. Not in the road, buddy. No, no, can't go in the road. Mama? There's Mama over here. What you so worried about? Look what you got here? Just to Nassau, just for a week. Mama said she can take care of the baby. We can't afford it, Kimberly. Why don't we sell the truck? It's not like it's making us some big income. I tell you two times I screw up, they blacklist me. I betcha it's because my brother's been bad mouthing me to them, you know? Luke, when we got married, you said you owned Morrison Trucking. That's what you said. I didn't know we were going to be having money problems. [phone ringing] Hello? Walker. Phone. Yeah? PATTY: Come on. - LUKE: Hey, how's it going? Hello, Luke. What do you want? I was just thinking about you is all. We haven't even talked to each other in two years. Just hoping there'd be some way we could patch things up. How's work? They, uh, give you some loads. You know they're not. Stafford's nothing but a horse's ass. I heard you sold a truck? Yeah. Yeah, I had to. Other one's in tip top shape though. It's all ready to go. Look, Walker, truth is I want to come back, work for you. I don't know, Luke. I gotta think about that. Yeah, well, of course. You think about it. I'll give you a call back in a couple of days. I appreciate it. Just, uh, you tell Patty and the kids I said hi. OK. What does he want? To come back. You're not going to let him? We've had two good years without him in our lives. If he comes back to work for the company, it'll be like it was before. But if you refuse him, it could be worse. I know. Can't you just give him some money and make him go away? I don't want him back in our lives. Neither do I. If I was to do this, how would it work? Well, we'd put a mic on ya. Then you invite him over for a visit, when the two of you are alone, you'll have to draw him out. Tell him you think that he was the victim. Let him know that you believe he was justified in doing what he did. Believe me, if there was any other way to find out the truth. What if he catches on? You'll have to trust us, Patty. We'll have several agents near him, and a sharpshooter on him at all times. A sharpshooter? The way I see it, you've got two choices. You can settle this thing now once and for all, or you can spend the rest your life never knowing the truth. All right, now, I want you to try and face him when he talks. Don't get too far away. How's that? Just try and keep him around the office, trucks, and tool shed. You should be well covered. Now, the DA's office has only given us one shot at this, so, uh, give it your best. Oh, you expecting the governor, Patty? Cooking calms my nerves. Listen, the kids are at your Mom's, we go Walker well covered. I've never seen him so nervous. He could just break down, and Luke could do about anything out there. Look, he'll be fine. You just serve up one of your famous dinners, and keep Kimberly out of the way. Byron, you just get him through this alive. Yeah. OK, they're here. get comfortable. LUKE: Oh, that pie was good. About the best darn lasagna I've ever eaten too. Thanks, Luke. I knew it was your favorite. What about mine? Well, yours is good, honey. Yours is. Yeah. It's just as about as close to paradise as a man could come, you know? Hey, Walker, you hear old Jake Lummocks died? It's a shame. He was a good old man. Yeah, none better. Didn't his granddaughter move to New York? Married that dentist? I heard she was trying to be a singer in LA. Actually, that was her sister, Mary Beth. That's right. People's lives are interesting. They sure are. You know, we have a lot of pie left. Why don't you all take some home? Well, all right. I don't mind if I do take a slice or two. It's going to get dark soon. Why don't we go, uh, take a look at that truck? See if she's in one piece? Sure. They're heading out. Now, fall back. Well, you know, I've kept her up. Regular service. Luke, you know, I feel bad about the way we fell out. It's been two years, and, uh, I've been thinking maybe you're right. Maybe we should put the past behind us. Yeah. The way I figure it, I can buy back into the company with the truck. Help you run things, you know, the way you want. We can build this company up together. I mean, that's what Daddy would have wanted. Oh, hell, I don't even care about that. I mean, I've been-- I've been thinking, and, uh, in a strange way, we're better off without him. You really think that? Luke, all I'm worried about is what works for you and me. I've been thinking about putting some cows out here in this pasture. LUKE: Are you serious? Yeah. What kind you figuring on? Oh, I don't know. Maybe, uh, Charolais. Hundred head to start. That'd be all right. We got ourselves a couple of horses, we get roundups going on in spring. Get rid of these damn trucks. We just become full time cowboys. Yeah. Man, I forget how much fun we had. We're gonna have ourselves a heap more of fun. That's for sure. Come on, let's take a walk. So I told her, you gotta be crazy hanging with that guy when he pulls those kind of things. Girl, you get out of that relationship. That's what I told her. Good for you, Kim. Hey, Kim, do you think maybe you could finish up for me here? Put away that crystal? Sure. I've got a little headache coming on. I'm going to go take an aspirin. You know, um, what you were saying earlier about us being better off without Daddy? Yeah. I'm just surprised is all. Because I always figured you took him for the cat's ass. Well, Luke, I'll tell you, there was times he made me so mad, that I felt like killing him right on the spot. Mama never loved us like she loved Bobby. I just-- I tell you the truth, I don't miss any of them a whole hell of a lot. Bobby and Mama spouting that Bible trash all the time. I hated going to church. Look, I'm saying life goes on, Luke. Let's just go on with it, huh? [phone ringing] Let me get that. Morrison Trucking. Yeah, listen, Walker, you're doing real good. He's starting to trust you. Now, ask him some questions. Ask him about the shell we found. OK, sure. Bring him along to where he's gonna be talking, and then you be quite, OK? We need a full confession. OK, gotcha. Yeah, you take care too. Who was that? Ray Spicer, about the tire. I want to tell you, if you did do it, you were smart, man. I mean, you didn't leave that Byron anything. LUKE: Byron's a horse's ass. Couldn't solve a murder if his life depended on it. Just that one shell. You know they matched it to your gun, right? I looked all over for that dang thing. I've been thinking about it, Luke, and, uh, I'm ready to bring you in, 50/50. Full partner. That's all I wanted. That's all I ever wanted. Just you and me. I can't see him. It's no good. They're blocked. Number two, find a position and take over. Patty? What are you doing? - Grab her. What the hell are you doing? Luke! Put her in the kid's room. Luke! Well, the thing is, Luke, if we're going to be partners and working together every day, I got to know what happened that night. Everything. You know, that's how partners have to be with one another. What was that? What? That sound. I heard something. I didn't hear anything, Luke. I did. Why you asking me about the killings? Why would Ray Spicer be calling about tires on a Sunday? I don't know. You working with Byron? Hey, come on. Put that gun down. Are you? You wearing a wire or something? I'm not wearing a wire. Put the gun down. Prove it. Prove it, big brother. Strip. What? I want to see if you're wearing a wire. Take it off. If he finds the mic, shoot him. Come on. I'll strip for you, Luke. I'm sorry, brother. I guess I'm just paranoid. I tried so hard to please Mama. I could never do anything right. Bobby could never do anything wrong. That day I'd gone to church, with Mama and Bobby in the morning. And I left early. Daddy found out about it. He lost it. Told me I was grounded for the day. He took away my keys. Said I was going to have to cut all the grass. I'd had it. I took one of the Macks and I headed on down to Kimberly's place. Went to sleep. Later on, about 2:00 AM, everyone was sleeping. I took their family car, and I came back home. I came in through the kitchen doors. I'd left them unlocked. So you planned it, Luke? Yeah, it was planned. I came in, took the phone off the hook so they couldn't out from the bedroom. I went downstairs to the basement, got my 16 gauge, because I knew it wasn't going to jam. I decided I was going to do Bobby first. WALKER: Did Bobby wake up? LUKE: He never knew what hit him. Then I went in Mama and Daddy's room. I hit Mama first, but Daddy, he jumped up, he started hollering at me. So I got scared and I ran. Then I realized I was going to have to finish what I started. Turned back around, shot Daddy. Then I went onto Mama. WALKER: Did Mama know it was you? LUKE: She looked me right in the eyes. She didn't say anything. She just sat there holding that Bible as usual. I shot her three times. Then I picked up all the shells. Daddy was always telling us we got to pick up all the shells. I went down to the basement, I cleaned my gun, put it back on the rack. I got in the car, went on back to Kimberly's place. I passed out on the couch. You sorry, Luke? No I'd I'd do it all the same if I had a chance. BYRON: Hold steady. Standby. Feels good being able to talk to you about this. BYRON: Get ready to move in, boys. It feels real good to know that you understand, and now we can finally put this thing behind us. Move on. BYRON: OK, now, go, go, go. Freeze! Don't move! LUKE: Walker! get them off me. Hey, Walker? We both knew this day would come. Luke Jackson Morrison, you are under arrest for the murders of Garth Morrison, Florence Morrison, and Bobby Morrison. You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. I didn't want it to be Luke. I didn't want it to be Luke. I know. I'm sorry. It's going to be OK. Get him outta here. KIMBERLY: What is going on here? Luke? Luke? Let go of me. Take her in for questioning. All rise. In the matter of the state of Georgia versus Luke Jackson Morrison, the prisoner will rise. Luke Jackson Morrison, this court has found you guilty of three counts of capital murder in violation of the criminal code and against the peace and dignity of the state of Georgia. In a premeditated act, you did brutally murder three members of your own family. Do you have anything you wish to say before sentence is passed. Only that you don't prosecute my wife. She had nothing to do with it. Now, son, I want to hear you tell me did you kill your daddy? Yes, sir. And while he was sleeping, did you kill your little brother Bobby? Yes, sir. And, son, did you kill your good mama? Yes, sir, I did. Well, under these circumstances, this court sees fit to sentence you to death by electrocution on a future date yet to be determined. Order. Order in my court. Your honor? I'm Walker Morrison. May I speak? Go ahead. Luke is my last surviving brother. He's the last of my family, and we're all that's left. Now, it was me that got him to confess to this horrible thing that he did, but nobody said anything about killing him. There's been enough death in my family, your honor, I gave him to you. But if you sentence him die, I'm going to have the death of my little brother on my hands. The court has heard you, Mr. Morrison. In the light of Mr. Walker Morrison's comments, the court has reconsidered sentence, and now sentences Luke Jackson Morrison to three consecutive life terms for the murder of his mother, his father, and of his brother. There will be no possibility of parole. Court is adjourned. Officers, take away the convicted. Mommy, look, Daddy's here. Daddy! Daddy! Hey. [music playing]