Transcript for The Pearl (2004) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (orchestral music) - Kino, our people have always been great music makers. Everything you see, think, do or hear becomes a song. Just listen to it with your soul. (mystical music) (water bubbling) (ethereal music) (water splashing) (serene music) (crickets chirping) (Kino moaning) (dramatic music) - Ooh! (club banging) (rifle booming) (thunder booming) - I saw some men in my dreams. They were killed. Were they the vanished ones? - Your father used to dream about them. - But what do they want from me? - Perhaps one day you will know. (water splashing) (water bubbling) (adventurous music) (seals grunting) (water splashing) - Kino, you did it again. - I did it again. (dramatic music) - Kino, you did it again. (surf roaring) (water roaring) (water dramatically splashing) (baby fussing) (gentle music) (baby crying) - Watch, a son, my son. I love you both. Coyotito. Like my father. (dramatic orchestral music) (wind chimes rattling) (dramatic music) (clubs pounding) (rifle banging) - You were having the bad dream again, weren't you? - When I go to sleep your eyes are open. When I wake up, they're still open. - I must look at through my man all the time. (gentle music) You didn't say good morning. - Good morning. (orchestral music) (waterfowl whistling) (rooster crowing) (waterfowl calling) (goat bleating) (chickens clucking) (waterfowl chirping) (dog whining) (dramatic music) (dog barking) - What's wrong, Kino? What is it? - I heard the music of evil. It's louder now. (baby crying) - Oh God! (baby screaming) (boot stomping) The doctor. Go get the doctor, Kino. - The doctor won't come here. - Your son may die. Get the doctor! - Juana, the doctor won't come here. - You're his father, you're my man. You bring the doctor. Where are you going? - To get the medicine woman. - The scorpion just stung Coyotito. The poison may kill my baby. - Juana wants the doctor. - He will not come. - I want to (indistinct). - Juana wants the doctor. - He will not come. - The doctor won't come here. - Then we'll go to him. - Scorpion, the baby has been stung. Juan and Kino are taking him to the doctor. - The doctor just kills bush people. He charges a lot. (dramatic music) - Scorpion bite. - I have nothing better to do than to cure insect bites for little Indians? I am a doctor, not the veterinarian. - The father told me that his firstborn is dying. He requires the skill of the healer. - Has he any money? Of course not. They never have any money. I alone in the world and I'm supposed to work for nothing and I am tired of it. Go see if he has any money. - Yes, master. (metal clanging) - Go, tell your daughter, mother to come to rub my back. (doctor mumbling) (bell dinging) - Have you money to pay for the treatment? - Pearls, they're as good as money. - He's willing to pay with these pearls, master. - Ah. (doctor chuckles) Let's see. Small, small, ugly, atrocious, gray, flattened. They are worthless. Tell him I'm not here. Tell him anything you like only do not disturb me anymore. (metal clanging) Take care of that. - I have a nice little present for you. - The doctor has gone out. He was called to her serious case. (somber music) (door banging) - Brother, I should get back to my work. (baby crying) (fist banging) - Kino! Come, come. - Why did you do that for? - To make him feel important. - You have no right to enter the house of the Lord. You live in sin. - Please baptize my son, Father. - But you are not married. Out! - My son is gonna die. Please take care of his soul. (baby crying) I'll come back for his body. - Wait, wait. Please. Have you chosen a name? - Coyotito. - That's no name for a Christian. How about Yuan, Yuanito. - Yuan Coyotito, I like it. - Bring the child. Who's going to be the godfather? (baby crying) - Juan Coyotito, what would you ask from the church of God? - True faith. - What would you gain with faith? - Eternal life. - Juan Coyotito, I baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. (shells rattling) (owl hooting) (baby crying) - I think it's enough. No swelling, no cramps, no fever so far. He has to sweat the poison. - Is he going to live? - He may live. And then again, he may not. - Hi, Kino. - Can I use that? - Yeah. - You ready? - Nah, not today. The water is very cold. That's why they came early. - How's my little nephew? - Much better, thank you. - Today I got me a beauty. I bet it's with 500. - Ask 800. He's beautiful. - Nothing wrong with asking. - [Juana] Did you see Juan Tomas' pearl? - Oh, yeah. Maybe tomorrow Kino will get a good one. - Bye, Silino. - Bless you. - Thank you. - 500 Pesos. A man can support his family for a whole year with that kind of money. - Juan Tomas deserves it. Your brother is a good man. - Well, I have to go alone. - Sure. Go for the sharks with that hand. You know how blood attracts those beats. - Yeah, I put this plaster on it. It will be dry by the time I get there. - Kino, we'll go with you. - My Coyotito. - Whatever happens, we are family and we'll be together. (Kino whistles) (gentle music) (water splashing) (dramatic orchestral music) - Kino. - I can't take that in the cave with me. (water splashing) (ethereal music) (dramatic music) (water splashing) - Kino, are you all right? (Kino coughing) Kino, are you all right? Please, we have to rush, the rain is coming. - [Kino] I thought I was dead. - Death will be somewhere else. Even Coyotito is better now. (dramatic music) (thunder crashing) (men chattering) - [Kino] Take him, please. Juana, look what I found. - [Juana] What are you going to do now that you are a rich man? - Get married. We'll marry in the church. (uplifting music) I'm a rich man now. (thunder crashing) - Father, may I come in with your holy blessing? - And what brings you here? - Great news. Kino, the fisherman, found the pearl of the world. - Do you know this fisherman? I think they call him Kino. - Yes, yes, he's a patient of mine. I am treating his son for a scorpion bite. I am pleased that he is found a nice pearl. Very poor man. - Did you believe this chest pain could be my heart? - Oh, I don't think so. (doctor coughing) - I damaged my lungs when I was young. Studying medicine in La Lorbonne. - In Paris. - Ah, Paris. Ah, Paris, Paris. That was the most civilized way of living. I even had a mistress. She, she had a tragic ending. She was a lovely young thing. We used to go to the opera, the art exhibitions, the Cammeray, dine in the finest restaurants, la cuisine Francais. That will do for now. - This pearl will make us rich and set us free. My son will go to school. My son will read the book and my son will write in the writing. My son will make numbers and words. Through him we'll know. He'll become the leader of our people, the one we've all been hoping for. He'll break out of the pot that holds us in. This is what the pearl will do. - You will get nice clothes. What else? - A new harpoon. Why not a rifle? The pearl will give me a rifle. (dramatic music) - How did you dare to go to the outer reef? - I heard the music of the pearl, I just followed. - How much is it to compare its worth? - I don't know. Juan Tomas, what did you get for yours? - They wouldn't pay my price. I got very upset. I gave my pearl to the priest. - God bless you. - He's gonna send it to the Pope. - Dr. Karl. - Good evening, father. You look surprised. - You never visit the house of the Lord. - Oh, well, lately I have been wondering about my eternal rest. - [Priest] As you should. - My dearly beloved departed wife paid you money for losses in her memory in perpetuity. I should like to do the same. - Your wife was a very virtuous lady and generous. - And wealthy. I'm sure you got her first-class accommodation. Perhaps, perhaps for acknowledging how mean, selfish she was. Nevertheless, I would like to join her there one day. - That's a good thought, but if you want to go to heaven, you should practice Christian virtuous like charity. - Now we're talking. How much? - Heaven is not for sale. - How much do I pay for eternal rest? - Not pay, give. - Oh, could you give me some idea how much I should give? - Memorial masses in perpetuity are more expensive than they were 20 years ago. - Oh, you mean 20 years makes a difference in eternity? Hmm, Father? I believe the fisherman brought you a pearl today. I am sure that you would prefer to have the money. How much? (dramatic music) - 50 pesos. - 50 pesos. (dog barking) - Kino, the doctor, the doctor is coming. - I was not home when you called this morning, but now the first chance I've come to see the baby. - The baby is nearly well now. - Oh, sometimes my friend, the scorpion sting can have a curious effect. There will be apparent improvement, but then without warning, death follows. Sometimes there could be the withered leg. Or a blind eye, crooked back. Yes, I know the sting of the scorpion, my friend, and I can cure it. High, high, high, yes, yes. (doctor mumbling) There we go, look. (doctor babbling) Yes, just as I thought, just as I thought, the poison is inward, it will strike soon, yes, yes. Come. (doctor singing to baby) You see, you see the eye? It's blue. Look, blue. I will give him something to try and turn the poison aside. Good. Good boy, good boy. Yes, yes, I'll take care of you. (dramatic music) Yes, come, come, look. (doctor babbling) No, no, I know you don't want to. (baby crying) I think the poison was just about to strike, but the medicine should save the baby from any harm. You know, perhaps I just arrived in time to save the baby. Oh yes, when do you think you'll be able to pay the bill? - When I've sold my pearl, I'll pay you. - Oh, you have a pearl? Is it a good pearl? - He has found the pearl of the world. - Kino found a pearl like nobody has ever seen. - Kino is a rich man now. - I've never heard of it. - Tomorrow I'll sell it and I'll pay you. - Could I see it? (ethereal music) It would be a shame, my friend, if it was stolen before you could sell it. Perhaps you would like me to put it in my safe. - It's safe here. - Here? Well, even I with an untrained eye would notice if you had dug a hole in the floor. (dramatic music) (baby crying) - Coyotito! Get out! - The poison started to work. I can defeated it. I will try my best. - Please, we will give you anything. - Anything? If I save your baby's life, you will give me anything? What about the pearl? - Kino. - I know you charge five pesos. In front of these witnesses I say I'll pay you 10 if you say my son. - You are not gonna let him die, are you? (calming music) - Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh. That's it, very well, come on. Come on. Here we are, yes. He will be all right now. I have won the fight. Pay attention. Tomorrow Kino will bring the pearl to one of you. I don't want another mishap like we had today with Carmelo, do you understand? - Juan Tomas wanted 500. I pass thinking he would come back. - You thought he did come back, but he did not come back, you idiot. - I offer 150. That pearl was not worth more than 1,500. - I went as high as 200. He got mad. - He got mad. He got mad and he went to the priest. - That's his loss. - His loss should be my gain. - Tomorrow I will go, buy the pearl from the priest and bring it to you. - I have already bought it. - The priest brought it to me and I gave him 20 pesos. (men laughing) (hand banging) - What is all this commotion about? What do you want? - I want my pearl back. The Pope will be much happier with Kino's. - You gave it away for charity. - I was angry. I'm a poor man. - I cannot give you back property of the holy mother church. - We cannot push these people too far. We got to try to keep them happy. (men laughing) - Kino's pearl is another matter. I was told it's the biggest pearl ever found in these waters. I don't know how much it is worth. - I do. I have seen it and I want it. (dramatic music) (metal scraping) (dog barking) (metal scraping) - Who do you fear, Kino? - Everyone. (romantic music) - I hope you didn't buy anything. - We have credit now, here, look, look. For Coyotito. (both laughing) - How about you? - This hat and new shirt, new pants and. - And? - New dress. - Thank you. - And this shawl. It's made of silk. And shoes. - Shoes. Shoes. (laughing) Shoes. (church bell dinging) - They are coming. They have chosen to deal with you first. I wouldn't be back later. Oh, remember, be nice. - You must be very careful to see they do not cheat you. - Very careful. - How can we know what is a fair price if we don't know what the pearl buyer gets with the pearl in another place? - That's true, how can we know, we're here and not there. - Good morning, my friend, come in. Please come in. What can I do for you? - I have a pearl. (laughing) - You have a pearl, huh? Sometimes a man brings in a dozen. Well, where's your pearl? We will value it and give you the best price. - Yes. (ethereal music) - No price have been mentioned yet. (dramatic music) - I am sorry. - This is a pearl of great value. - You have heard of fool's gold? This pearl is like fool's gold. It's too large. Who will buy it? There's no market for such a thing. You thought it was a thing of value and it is only a curiosity. I am sorry. - This is the pearl of the world. No one has ever seen such a pearl. - From the country. It is large and clumsy. How can you find the to match? Let's say for earrings. Ladies have two ears. It will look horrible on a ring like a seagull say. I can give you say 1,000 pesos. - It's worth 50 times as much. - 50,000 pesos? 50,000 pesos. - You know it. - 50,000 pesos. - 50,000 pesos. - 50,000 pesos. - That's too much. - A lot of money. - You wanna cheat me. - No, no, do not blame me. I am only an appraiser. Ask the others, go to the Ruffess's, show your pearl. Or better yet, I'll have another to come here so that you see that there is no collusion. Wait. - I don't like it. Your pearl is big, but kind of gray. You better sell. - 1,000 pesos is lot of money. Don't be a really fool like Juan Tomas. He has to work a year to get back what he lost yesterday. - That is not your business. - What do you think? - No pearl diver lives to be 50. 50 doesn't seem a lot to ask. - Here they come. - I hae put a value on this pearl. The owner here does not think it's fair. I will ask you to examine this thing and to make an offer. Notice, I have not mentioned what I have offered. (horse hooves clicking) (dramatic music) - One of my clients I search I think. I will offer a 500 pesos. Perhaps I can sell it to my client for 600. It is a monstrosity. - You see? - What a stroke of luck. Here comes a professor. Professor Costas, the geologist. He's an authority in this field. - Ladies, gentlemen. The news of your pearl brought me here. Can I see it? Very interesting. Very big piece. (gentle music) One of a kind. Very odd-looking. Incredible. - How much is it worth? - How much is it worth? I'm not talking about the commercial value. I would probably sell it to a museum for display with my seashell collection. - How much? - I'm a fool, but my first offer still stands. - I'll give you 500 at the most. - You said it was incredible. - Yes. Can I have the pearl? Better pearls are made out of paste and I know about these things. Let me show you what I mean. You see it's soft and chalky here, see it for yourself. It looses color. Bouncing crevices all over. However, I'll gave you 750 pesos. - I'm being cheated. My pearl is not for sale here. I'll go perhaps even to the capitol. - I'll raise it up to 1,200. - Hey, Hey, Hey! I'll give you 2,000. - Some say they stole the pearls. - Yeah, the vanished ones. - What do you want? - I want to buy passage to the mainland. - It'll cost you 10 pesos. - Can I have credit on the fair? I need to sell my pearl. - Have you ever been to the mainland? Do you know where to sell your pearl? - My pearl's worth a fortune in the mainland. - Oh, well, between you and your fortune lies 100 miles of open sea. - Then I'll go in my canoe. - A canoe. You'd never make it in a canoe. - My great-grandfather came in it. - I made that too once. I'll go with you. - You fools, you'll drown out there. You'll have the wind, the sea and the currents against you. - Right here we have your castillings against us. (serene music) - Juana, what's wrong? - It's Slavino. He fell into a ravine. He's dead. (women crying) - No one legged man takes it downhill shortcut carrying a box of tools. He was pushed from here. - Hail Mary full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. (crowd mumbling prayers) - It was an accident. - Somebody wanted to prevent Slavion from helping Kino. - Then they would have attacked Kino instead. - Kino was not alone. - Besides, the pearl has little value. Those dealers didn't discuss the matter among themselves. All of them, even the professor know that pearl is a freak, a monstrosity. - Suppose they had arranged it before. - If that's true, then all of us have been cheated all of our lives. - Kino, I would like to have a word with you. - These men are my friends. - Kino, you are named after a great man and a great father of the church who's namesake tamed the desert and made Christians of you people. Did you know that? - Father Kino, yes, I know. - What you did today was against religion. Great calamities will fall on the rebellious ones. Each man and woman is like a soldier sent by God to guard some parts of the castle of the universe. Some are in the ramparts and some far deep into darkness of the walls, but each one must remain faithful to their post. They must not go running about, else the castle is in danger from the assaults of hell. - Is it a sin to sell my pearl for a better price? - I'm afraid for you. - What have I to fear but starvation? - Go with God then. - No one dares to speak like that. - Kino is a brave man. - Who wants to take the trip with me and share my fate? - I would go, but I have four children. Abalonia, Juana, Coyotito, who would look after them? - I am not a seaman. - I hate water. - I'm sorry, even I value my poor life above your chances of success. - I can't go alone. I need someone to sail with me. - I'll go with you. I'll share your fate. - Juana, you are a woman with the baby. - We are his family. My man won't cross 100 miles of ocean alone. - [Kino] We'll discuss it in the morning. - Goodnight. (dramatic music) - Tatiana, now you're a widow. Now you have no house, no worldly possessions. Now your brothers and sisters will provide for you. ♪ Bye-bye little brown sparrow ♪ ♪ Sleep tight ♪ ♪ Bye-bye little brown sparrow ♪ ♪ Sleep tight little brown sparrow ♪ ♪ Sleep tight, bye-bye ♪ - Do you hear that? - Yes, it's the song of the enemy. I try to overpower it with my singing, but it's still out there. (clubs banging) Kino! Somebody help! (solemn music) (shells rattling) (dramatic music) - We are all as guests to the battle of life. We arrive and claim our place and in peace we partake and enjoy. When our time comes, another guest will come to take our place to continue the feast, to partake and enjoy. (shells rattling) - Kino, listen to me. The pearl is evil. Let's destroy it before it destroys us. Let's crush it between two stones. Let's throw it into the sea back where it belongs. Kino, it is evil. - No, no. I'll fight this thing. I'll win over it. No one will take our good fortune away from us. Believe me, I'm your man. - Any man can get killed. - We'll leave at first light. Are you not afraid to go with me? - Yes, I am, still. (fire crackling) (dramatic music) (waves crashing) (hand slapping) - The pearl is gone! - It's not gone, through there. Can you see it? - What are you doing? - Hold my sash. - Kino, I'm so afraid. - Hush, don't speak now. (ax pounding) (metal clanking) (solemn music) (people yelling) (dramatic music) (woman yelling) (fire crackling) (Juana crying) (hopeful music) - I heard your baby cry. - Did you see who's done this? - The evil ones. (dramatic music) (metal slashing) (owl hooting) - It's time now. (crickets chirping) Where you go? - To the north. I heard there's villages in the north. How far, I don't know. - Avoid the shore. The evil ones are organizing a search party for you there. Do you still have the pearl? - I have it. - There's a devil in this pearl. You should've sold it and passed on the spirit. Perhaps when you sell it, you could buy peace for yourself. - It belongs to my son. - The wind is strong, there'll be no tracks. Your ancestors guide you. (serious music) My brother, I may never see you again. (dog barking) - Goodnight, doctor, I have to leave early in the morning. - It was a great mistake, them bringing that child to me. - Then again, it's just a matter of time. (dramatic music) - I'm sad to see a man down on his luck. (man mumbling) - But now, Kino's free his first time in his life. (frogs chirping) (baby crying) (animal growling) (baby crying) - Master, master. - What? - Master. - What is the news? - Our people couldn't find Kino. No one wants to continue the search. - Huh? - They feel the power of the pearl. It helped the fishermen to kill three men. - Nonsense. Go on, get out of here. Bring me more cognac. - Yes, master. - That stupid Kino. He has in the palm of his hand my retirement, my ticket to Paris, my future. I don't want to die in this filthy, ugly village. I'll be 70 soon and my debt to justice by now is too old to be remembered. Whey, even I, sometimes even I forget her name. Marie Clair. Marie Clair. Oh, Marie Clair. Have you forgiven me? - I know what you mean. But I'll help you get Kino. Nobody knows these mountains better than I do. - Why should I trust you? - Because I'm going to be the new doctor in town. - You're no physician. - Neither are you for that matter. - I am Dr. Karl Gowlee. - That's not your real name. A real doctor who have never settled in this forsaken place. - You filthy liar. Look, go over there, my diploma from La Lorbonne. - I notice it. But, let me remind you that I speak French. And this diploma was issued 80 years ago. So you were what at the time, 20, 25? Are you 100 years old now? When you go, I want you to give me your diploma. (doctor laughing) Your house. Your books. Your servants. Your practice. - So you will be the doctor? - Is that a deal? - Just get me the pearl. (dramatic music) - Hey, stop! Get back there. Get back there, go on. Get outta here, move. (man groaning) Go. (horse neighing) (Juana hooting) (owl hooting) - Trackers. Maybe I should let them take me. - You have the pearl. Do you think they will take your back to say that you've stolen it? - But you'll be safe. - You think they'll let me live? Do you think that they'll let the little one here live? - Maybe we can lose them in the mountains. (solemn music) (dramatic music) - They won't be long. (baby crying) - We'll sleep over there. (man yelling) - Get up, get up, get going, come on. - How far? - They'll be here in an hour, perhaps two. - Good, have your breakfast. - Juana, I'll go on and you'll hide. I'll lead them into the mountains. When they've gone past, you go north and I'll catch up with you. You take the pearl. It's the only safe way. - No, we go with you. - I can go faster alone. You put the baby in more danger if you go with me. - No. - Why not? It's the wisest thing and it's my wish. - No. - Sorry. - Now, Kino, all I have to do is follow the poachers. (rifle booms) - Look, Coyotito, that's a jackrabbit. A snake. And that's your namesake, the coyote. And the mountain lion. There's water over there. - How do you know? - These tracks are from last night. That's where they all go to drink. - Are you sure? - Yes, we are sure. Tell your mother we are sure, Coyotito. - Let's go. (cicadas buzzing) - Leave me here. I cannot go on. My feet, I'm gonna get tracker blood. We're lost. - We're not lost. - They're showing us the way. Can't you see 'em? The vanished ones. They'll lead us to water. (water roaring) (hopeful music) (dramatic music) - Go. (rifle booms) - Juana, I found water. - Where is it? Give it to me. - Those men are between us and the water. - It looks bad and my breasts are dry. What are we going to do? - We'll find shelter before it gets dark. (solemn music) (dramatic music) - What does this mean, Kino? Who were these men? - The vanished ones. Our elders sent them to sell the pearls. Now we know their fate. We must tell our people. We must tell our people so their souls may rest in peace. (wind howling) (ethereal music) - What are you doing? - My skin will be less noticeable than my close. There, if I don't come back, you lay here quietly and you wait till they've gone. You go north. (solemn music) - Go with God. (dramatic music) (rifle booming) (water splashing) (wind howling) - Get. (rifle booming) (Juana crying) (baby crying) (rifle booming) (Juana crying) (baby crying) (children yelling) (dramatic music) (solemn music) - They were killed with this. - Damn you. - I can see everything clearly now. I was under a spell. I could hear nothing but the music of the pearl. I didn't know it was evil. - What are they doing? - They are returning the pearl to the sea. - What? (dramatic music) - Shoot him. - Give me that gun, you bastard. - Juana. - No, no. (hopeful music) (laughing) (rifle booms) (waves crashing) (fire crackling) (orchestral music)