Transcript for Born Into a Dream (2023) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [upbeat salsa music] ANNOUNCER: I want my movie. [dramatic music] [suspenseful electronic music] [whimsical music box melody] [bird cawing] [screams] [screams] Go ye and seek the book of wisdom. [screams] Go ye and seek the book of wisdom. [screams] Why am I always last in these dreams? Can I go back in? No, absolutely not. Go ye and seek the book of wisdom. Why are you following me? I'm not following you. You backed up into my space. You sound absolutely insane. And what is that ridiculous outfit you're wearing? Do not ever speak to Cesar of Dreams that way, or I will have your head on a silver platter. The only thing I'm gonna have is my foot crushed against both of your mouths, dashing and bleeding. This man needs taking to the dungeon and chained up. No, no, no. I just wanted to see what he's doing in our dream. I have no idea how I got here. The only people that I know are you two. Why do you say that? I entered the same time you did. Look, just stop following me. Render unto Caesar what is Caesar's. [suspenseful electronic music] Chicken? Somebody's been here. I know you're out there! Hey! I thought I told you to stop following me. What do you mean? You're following us. It's obvious that you're lying, or these dreams are dictating our thoughts. Don't you take the hint? I don't want to be around you or anyone else, including myself. I don't need any fire friends, so run along, you, and whatever this strange creature is this dream put upon us. (SINGING) Invited to follow you. Listening to the madness. Give me that chicken, you glutton. I'm hungry. Mr. Hungry insulted Cesar and called me a creature. I have low blood sugar. I didn't mean to be mean. I'm just hungry. It's just because of this-- this curse. What curse? Why the hell are we in this dream? She's a real stiff one, that Queen of Dreams. I wanted to end my existence, but she stopped me and put me in this horrible dream. I was going to off myself for various reasons. I just want to go back to my city and find the Green Witch and slaughter her! (SINGING) Listening to the madness. Invited to follow you. Listening to the madness. Look, I don't want to be here any more than you do. But I know if we don't find that book of wisdom, none of us can leave this dream or none of us can go home. (SINGING) Invited to follow you. Listening to the madness. Maybe it's better in this dream than to go back. I was done with myself anyways. Cesar, would you like some chicken? [both laugh] You eat like an animal! What are you, a peasant? [both laugh] Dream chicken is really good. Chicken is good all the time. What the hell? Did you just come in from the last raindrop? Why are you eating a dead chicken and how do you know my name? Your name is Rain Drop? Don't tell me you're a vegan. I am indeed. You're indeed what? Vegan? Or your name is Rain Drop? Both are correct. I assure you, if you keep eating dead chickens, their family will get you in this dream-- if not in this one, in a nightmare. Look, beggar, I did not came here to negotiate with you. You used the B-word in front of him? I came here to warn you. I've been sent by the Queen of Dreams. There, in that forest, the Kazmen, it's a dark deadly soul. Beware. This can't be happening. I want out of this dream. We do not have time to argue. If you do not find the Book of Wisdom, the Kazmen will, and they might spell trouble. I must disappear now. I can't speak anymore. She's gone. She disappeared. You're smarter than you look. How did I end up getting surrounded by a bunch of mental cases? I just want to get out of here. I simply want to go back to my life. Even if it was a living hell, it was at least real. I mean, come on, Rain Drops? One thing we agree upon. Look, we have to be smart. We have to band together like Rain Drops told us to. Otherwise, we can't go home. How the hell are we going to find this book of wisdom when we're surrounded by the strangest creatures? What is your name? Americano. Tell us, Americano, what is your story? We all have one. And believe me, I think that the only way to save us is the Book of Wisdom. It has the answers for us all. Ah, maybe. I have to tell someone. It hurts to keep one's thoughts alone. I had a lonely path for so long. I promised myself I would not make the same mistake as my parents did. I chose chastity and I chose celibacy. I wanted to find my soul, but one day I woke up and my heart started hurting. You had heart issues? No, Sherlock, I was heartbroken. Be kind to Cesar. Remember, I have a serpent and it is a very powerful serpent. I'm not afraid of a serpent. I got the crystal from the gates above. Go on. What happened? I woke up and I was so alone. I felt empty and sad. And then one day I went out and I saw this green-eyed, pale skin. And she smiled at me and asked for my name. And then I said, my name is Americano. Hey, I saw you around the neighborhood. You're such a handsome boy. And I love your eyes. I only want a warm embrace. Come with me. Your chastity is a horrible way to live. Do as I say and you will never be lonely anymore. I will be the one to cure your soul with my embrace. Do not look above for the answers. Look below. That is where I come from. I think I love you. If you must. [sobs] It hurts. It hurts. It hurts. It hurts! She cursed me. The Green Witch of the mountain, she cursed me. The only way it could be removed into the pit is to-- is to-- Tell us, Americano. She must have what? She must have what? She must have a pure and kind soul to remove this curse once and for all. It's all so strange, these words. They make sense, yet they are followed by riddles. Don't you know? That's what they call me, The Prince of Riddles, the Prince of Loneliness. How can such a fair prince have such a low sense of self? Those are the riddles. Once we find that Book of Wisdom, we'll find the answers. But you, Mitro, how did you end up here in this dream? It is Cesar's turn. And he I serve. No, Mitro, say your piece. I want to know as well. In the future zone, I was to be the greatest warrior in all of wrestling. It was my dream to be the very best like no one ever was. My mother, she was so proud of me. Years of training, years of discipline. I did not drink. I did not smoke. I did nothing but train to try and be the greatest wrestler of all time. My mother was devastated. She spent all her earnings on my career and I had to win the fight. We made a deal. We bet all the funds we had to buy a home in a trailer park with the money if I won. But sadly, I let my poor mother down. My son, Mitro! [cheering, yelling] That's my son, Mitro! [crowd yelling] Come on! Come on! MAN: Give him the hammer! Give him the hammer! ANNOUNCER: The gentleman in front looks like he eats ninjas for breakfast. [crowd yelling] MAN: Give him the hammer! [crowd yelling] No! That's my son, Mitro! Mitro! Get up, you idiot! That's my son Mitro! [dramatic music] You're my son. I believed in you, and you lost. You lost and I believed in you. You're my son, and you lost. And I believed in you. I had to find my mother's money. It was all she had. The only way I could do it was to-- was to-- Wake up, Mitro. You were telling it was to? Was what to, Mitro? Was to-- to sell the serpent staff, for it is the only way. It is very valuable, very mystical. My grandfather, he would come in one day at home. And he had this book filled with verses, the page. He would sometimes shout it out loud in gibberish. It was about an old man with a staff and tales of these witches with a cane as well. The old man with the white beard came in with the staff, dropped it on the ground, and it turned into a giant snake. It ate all of the smaller snakes and returned back to him. Exactly what I saw when the serpent was handed to me by the Gatekeeper of Dreams. This is what I saw. Americano, you may be the Prince of Loneliness. But I am the King of Poverty and Suffering. ALL: Blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall inherit the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall inherit the kingdom of heaven. And you, Cesar, I serve you in this dream. But tell me, what is your story? Maybe we should go to sleep. We're all tired. Are you out of your freaking gourd? Go to sleep? I went through the gates of hell to tell you my story. Look, I'm sorry, Cesar. Just please tell me your story. I want to know. It was a warm summer night. My father, well, it was our empire-- not like in Rome, not in this dream. In Seguin, Texas-- [LARRY AND THE LAMPLIGHTERS, "MISS LINDY"] --my father, he owns a little Mexican restaurant. (SINGING) Have you ever met Miss Lindy? She's the gal with the bright red hair. Now she stands out from all the rest. You'd know her anywhere. Well, she's mine. Yeah, she's mine. Well, I love that little girl with the bright red hair. Well, Miss Lindy-- Can I get you anything? Just a tea or something. (SINGING) Well, I love that little girl with the bright red hair. Cesar, come here son. (SINGING) Have you ever seen Miss Lindy? She likes to dance all day. Can I get a tea? Yes, papa? What can I do for you? Hey, take care of that beautiful lady over there. Her father is the mayor of this city. And I don't want to get a bad health report. (SINGING) Well, I love that little girl-- OK. Man, papa, she's so beautiful. She gives me butterflies. With a girl like that, she goes for the bling. She ain't gonna give me no kissy-koo without no gold. I know. I tried to make her look at me, but she doesn't even see me. Like, I really like-- Put this on your neck. You'll get some attention. I paid a fortune for this. (SINGING) Well, Miss Lindy. My Miss Lindy. Well, I love that little girl with the bright red hair. Have you ever seen Miss Lindy? She likes to dance all day. Thank you. Hey, wait a minute. Sweetheart, that is a beautiful medallion. Is that real gold? 24 karat. Huh. Well, after this, why don't we go to the Dairy Castle and go get some ice cream when you get off work? Of course, I'd love that. Say 8 o'clock? Sounds good to me, honey buns. (SINGING) And when Miss Lindy smiles at me, oh what it makes me do. Well, she's-- [upbeat rock music] Oh, no. No, thank you. I'm good with my water. I love this ice cream. I could tell. Oh, you're-- Hold on. You're looking at me different from earlier. Are you OK? I mean, yeah, I'm OK. I just-- where's that-- that beautiful medallion you were wearing while you were working? Well, I don't like to wear it in this particular part of the neighborhood. Oh, well, I mean, that's too bad. I just thought, you know, like, since we're dating now, like maybe you would want to, I don't know, gift it to me. [laughs] Well, I thought you liked me. I guess you liked my gold medallion and my money more. Right on the money, honey buns. Come on, you can't be this much of a dumb-dumb. I mean, no offense, but like, look at you and look at me. I am to die for. I mean, I put the H in hot sauce. And you, well, you should have brought the medallion. I mean, at least you knew I liked that. [laughs] Stop being so dramatic, honey buns. Like, maybe we can negotiate. Like, let's work something out. What do you think? That's not a nice thing to say. You only like me for my golden medallion. This is just horrible. Honey buns, stop being such a drama queen. This is the worst night of my life. You know I care about you. Honey buns, where are you going? Honey buns! Don't ever call me honey buns again. I hate money. I just hate it. [sobs] Sorry, papa. [sobs] I'm sorry, papa. I'm sorry! I'm sorry, Cesar. Hey, you. Who are you? What are you? I'm the Queen of the Forest. I seek freedom. And you seek the mystery of the Book of Wisdom. I feel it in your spirits. You seek forgiveness from your mother. Will she ever forgive you? No, I don't think so. If you don't feel it, it won't become alive. Feelings create all life. Feel it, Mitro. How did you know my name? I know all names. It is my duty. Do you know my name? Cesar. Your name is hard to live up to, something you've been doing your whole life. Do you think your papa will ever forgive you for losing that gold medallion? She knows my name. She knows our stories. Please, Princess of the Forest, tell me, will I find the gold medallion? Tell me, is it in the river of life? I have to give it to my papa. Only your search for the Book of Wisdom will solve the mystery of the whereabouts of what the gold medallion means and is. I feel your pain. It is as deep as the forest. Let out your anger. Let out the resentment. Americano, do you not see what is in front of you? Get out of my way. I don't want to have anything to do with your magic. It's a light that shines darkly. All we want to find is the Book of Wisdom and to go home. Your tricks don't mean anything to me. You're just another witch to me. Americano, do you not see who I am? Do you not understand the mystery? Look into my eyes. There's no way I'm gonna look into your eyes. It's just another curse upon me. Let's go, guys. Just a pretty cunning little princess that's gonna probably turn us into frogs soon enough. If you do not believe, Mitro, if you do not feel, Cesar, if you do not forgive, Americano, you will never find the Book of Wisdom. Go yes now follow the monk who travels the great river. He has the map to the Book of Wisdom. Go ye now and find your path. [sitar melody] Guys, guys, come! Come listen! Where's the monk? Where's the monk? Monk of the River, are you in there? Are you the monk that the Princess of the Forest spoke of? We need the Book of Wisdom. We demand to see the Book of Wisdom. You are Mitro the great. I am not great. I lost. I am the King of Losers. I am the King of Poverty. I am nothing but a figment of your imagination. I want to return to my mother. My father was killed. Everyone was taken to dream limbo. We are no longer a tribe anymore, the great blonde tribe of Rubius. We were destroyed by the Kazmen. I wanted to kill them all. What happened? Why are you here? How did you survive? The sky monk, he came down and taught the rest of my tribe great wisdom. We honor him now. He is in that cave. He is filled with power and wisdom. Do not dishonor his presence. Ye all seek the Book of Wisdom. Look toward the sky. Look at the river of life. In the sky is the power. In the trees is the power. In the river is the power. The power of him who was yet to come who created she who was yet to come. You seek the Book of Wisdom, yet you-- you are consumed by resentment toward the mayor's daughter. You lay awake at night conjuring spirits against her. She has a past you do not understand. What you see in her is a shiny false gold. But she uses real gold to hide her pain. Your pain is no different than hers. You plan revenge. How can you seek the Book of Wisdom? Mitro, Mitro, your struggle has been so long, your pain so deep. You thought winning could restore your self. You thought your ego could restore your empty soul. Well, your father left you. Your mother became both mother and father. You both could have lived very peacefully. You chose your ego. How can ye seek the Book of Wisdom? I feel your pain, your loneliness. You seek the Book of Wisdom, you do. And you will find it. How can I seek the Book of Wisdom? I am the King of Loneliness. No. You are the King of Unforgiveness. You must forgive yourself. The Book of Wisdom can only be opened by she who has yet to come. The Book of Wisdom is not here. He threw away the book. How am I meant to break this witch's curse now? Help us. I want to go see my papa. I want to see my mother. Go ye seek the Book of Wisdom. [dramatic music] [sitar melody] The book! Cesar, Mitro, run towards the trees and meet me at the small island. I'll be running with the current. We'll meet at the eternal fire at sunrise. This book will never be found. We will. We ill find it. Why do they toy with our minds? Why did they throw the book? We will never find it. Come on, let's go. Why am I always suffering? Why does this always happen to me? Who are you? Hey, man, it's 25 Cents. Recognize. What's up? Man, you like the rest of us. Everyone suffers. We all must suffer. Creatures suffer. Animals suffer. Every creature is just suffering. And suffering is in the Book of Wisdom, which you just lost. Angels also have their bad days. I mean, I'm like kind of like a guardian angel here, man, but we'll just keep it like that. I don't have time for your rhymes and riddles. I need to find the truth. I need the result of my hope. Psych! Nah, man, that book is gone. Two doves just picked up the book from the water and took it to the castle to be stored, man. Man, classic. I appreciate your help, I do. It's just, Mitro and Cesar, they've been struggling in this dream. This dream is just so enduring. One day you will realize the wisdom. Man, y'all must be hungry from that long trip, you and your boys, man. Have some raindrops. How did you know I was hungry? Man, it's my duty to know this dream, man. I run this joint. Now, those things will fill you up like turkey dinner on rice, man. And make sure you give one of them to your boys over there. Because I know they might be hungry too. Because that'll fill them up real nicely. [flute melody] What do you want? Why are you playing for me? Wait, did you see the Book of Wisdom? Why did that crazy monk throw it into the water? I want out of this damned dream! [drum beating] Stop drumming! Stop! Who are you? What do you want from me? [drum beating] [suspenseful electronic music] To be or not to be, that is the question. Whether it is nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous misfortune. A wise man wrote that. But an even wiser man said, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Are you merciful, Americano? Do I know you? You look familiar. I see you've had the fortune to meet Sagrada. Sagrada, stand your position, please. Wait, dad? I remember you when I was young. I knew you died. I remember. Is it really you? One never knows in this dream what is truth. And even truth may not be the truth. Yes, I died. It was even a shock to me. It was in the prime of my life. And all one has to do in dream limbo is contemplate one's life and be guarded by Sagrada until the beams of light stand on the right. I often thought how much you meant to me. When I was little, you told me don't be afraid. It made me felt safe. (SINGING) Listening to madness. Trying to follow you. Listening to madness. I, uh-- I feel their presence. I feel the Kazmen. Can't you protect him, Sagrada? Can you not protect my son? It is forbidden. Run, son! The Kazmen! Run! A dream within a dream. Where's Mitro? I don't know. [screams] [laughs] [groans] We gotta save him. [yelling] [non-english speech] Are you insane? They are way too powerful for us. We must think our way out of this one. I'm not afraid to die for a friend. You can't be a coward. I'm not a coward. I'm just smart enough to think our way through this dream. I want to save Mitro. I don't want to die here by his side. You better think of a way to save him. I have a snake. I remember, remember what Mitro said to make the snake come alive. If you're not right, Cesar, then I will render unto you which is Caesar's, all right. [yelling] [non-english chanting] I think I remember. I think I do. What the hell do you mean you think? Do it now! Go ye and protect the mystical warrior. Go ye and destroy the evil Kazman, ye serpent of desire. No, wait. I'm not going out without a fight for Mitro. He's our friend. He needs us. I thought you didn't like him. I always admired fellow warriors. I remember it now. I remember. You got one second. He-- he asked me to say it with him. Only two souls can unite the wise as serpent power. Go ye and destroy the evil Kazmen. BOTH: Go ye and protect the mythical warrior. Go ye and destroy the evil Kazmen. [hissing] Things that occurred. Let me go now and I'll kill you all. [laughing] [non-english speech] [screaming] Get him, baby! [screaming] [screaming] [non-english speech] [non-english speech] [indistinct speech] [yells] You said it, Mitro. Right. Hold on a second. Huh? It's OK. Son, wake up. You've been asleep for hours on end. We need to talk. I know you think I'm mad at you. I'm upset. I'm upset at your non-responsibility more than anything. How could you do this to our family? We worked so hard for everything we've obtained. I'm sorry. I know you're asleep. I had to say that. Sleep all day if you must. I know you looked everywhere for the medallion. I wanted to say something else to you. I'm just not ready to. Sleepy head. [snoring] Mitro, did you notice Americano, well, he never mentioned his father or his mother. I feel sad for him. All he mentions is that curse that he got from that woman who hurt him. We've got to help him. There's gotta be a way. It's only the right thing to do. He is a fellow warrior. How? How do we help him? We help him by asking questions. What would I do for a coffee? I don't even drink coffee. But it'd be a great time for it right now. Oh yeah. I got these raindrops from 25 Cents. He said it'll fill us up. Hand one to Mitro. How do you know you can trust him? What do you think these are made of? Cyanide? Isn't he one of you people? Don't you trust him? Hey, what do you mean by "my people?" I'm just saying, you look mystical. He looks amicable. Not all little people get along. We can be pretty damn mean sometimes. Bet on that. Yes. Yes, we know with you and the Kazmen. Here, I'll be your guinea pig. Oh my goodness. This is so amazing. It's like-- it's like-- It's like what? It's like-- it makes me-- it makes me want to dance. You know that dance? Not that again. That's some weird malarkey. [sitar melody] This raindrop, it makes me just feel like if I had just eaten a feast for a king. I'm Cesar the great. I'm Cesar the great! Are you nuts? I'm not having that raindrop. No, I will do it. I am Cesar's warrior. Come on, fellow warrior. It's fun. There is a time to fight and a time for flight. Come fly with us. Eat the raindrop, Americano. Stop the mopey hero crap and have fun like us. I'm not gonna dance around like a bunch of morons. You guys look like flower children. No way. Eat the raindrop, Americano. You'll be happy like us. You won't be hungry anymore. You won't be hungry anymore. Americano won't eat the raindrop. Americano is a scared boy. Americano is a scared boy. I'm not afraid of anything. Eat the damn raindrop. BOTH: (CHANTING) Eat the damn raindrop. Eat the damn raindrop. Please! Eat the damn raindrop! The wind of the west is upset! Please! OK! I'll eat the damn raindrop. I'm starving anyway. Oh, not you again. You always appear with your sitar and cause trouble. Piss off. [upbeat rock music] [flute melody] What in dream hell is going on? Wake up! I said wake up! [groans] My head. My head hurts. What are you doing? Sleeping all day? You all are on a journey to seek the Book of Wisdom. I'm feeling a little bit queasy. Would you turn down the volume a bit? I will do nothing of the sort. I am the queen of this dream. And you will do as I say. You all look like a bunch of teen dreamers high on raindrops from the mystical creatures. Wait, how'd you know? They gave you some raindrops? Yes. We danced and danced like a bunch of monkeys. You know you can't trust 25 Cent. He gets dream points for that. Now he will be smiling, knowing he will receive gold and treasure rocks from the dream demons simply for pulling one over on you. I thought he was supposed to be one of our guides. Well, yes, he is one of your guides. But he's also a mystical creature that loves to play jokes. It's what he does. It's his soul makeup. He thinks it's fun. We had fun for a bit. You think this is fun? You have two moons to find the Book of Wisdom and learn your dream knowledge or you will not be able to go back and wake up. If you do not complete the dream knowledge, you will not ever be able to return home. Unless maybe you like it here, you want to stay in the dream. I mean you do love Sandhu's beautiful music. Believe me, he plays all millennium long. No! I want to go home to my dad. He needs me. I gotta work in the restaurant. My mama, she can't do it on her own. She needs me to take care of her. She has a bad heart. She needs me in the real world, not in this dream. I need to break this curse. I want my spirit back. Did you not hear what I said? Two moons. You do not have time to sit and chat. Go ye and seek the Book of Wisdom. I never thought being in a dream would be such hard work. How do you think I feel? I get tired after 20 paces. I don't like that Queen of Dreams. She's mean. I miss my mother. She always made those amazing chicken pies. Raindrops and burnt chicken just ain't cutting it for me. It was nice being in this dream for a while. But then I started to see things I never thought I would see. I started to feel things I never felt. I said things I would be afraid to say. I love that woman in real life so much. I was head over heels. You know, I was the most voted in my spelling class. I felt good about it till one day I met that shifty little-- Witch, I know how you feel. With all due respect, Cesar, remember what the sky monk said. She had a pain like yours. I wonder what he meant by you seek the Book of Wisdom, yet you are angry at her? I don't know why he doesn't see why we are angry about things. Maybe that's why we're here. Maybe that's precisely why we're in this dream. What do you mean? Don't you get it? We're in this dream and seeing thoughts that we would never see to think anew. We have to see things of our thoughts in this dream that manifest in this world and see them differently and think deeper thoughts about it. It makes sense to me. I mean, the sky monk made sense to me, even though I didn't understand him completely. There's something inside of me that he said that makes me want to stop hating. I even wanted to forgive her. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. That sounds familiar to me. Where did you hear it? My dad told me. Your dad? I thought-- He was in a dream, a dream inside a dream. He told me the truth may not be the truth within a dream. Especially a dream in a dream. What happens if we're in a dream inside of a dream inside of a dream? This is all madness. You are all now on the right path to the Book of Wisdom. Oh no, not you again. What was in that raindrop that you gave us? What's the big idea? I don't know where you're getting that big from, mister. Look, little brother, you might be able to pull the wool over these bigger folks, but you won't get one over on me. How much did they pay you to get us high? Who paid what? Never. The Dream Demons, the Queen of Dreams told us all. How much they pay you? I still have a banging headache. But you danced the night away. It was fun, right? Look, buddy boy-- Don't call me no boy. I'm a grown man, dude. You better put some respect on my name. 25 Cents, the Queen of Dreams told us we have two moons left. And we have to find the Book of Wisdom. If we don't find the Book of Wisdom, we're gonna be stuck here eating raindrops that Jimi Hendrix left behind. Jimi who? Never mind. Look, can you lead us the way? Even a hint will do enough. It is forbidden, man. It is forbidden? Why is everything in this dream world forbidden? I gotta get rid of this curse. I just want to hug my mother. And I just want to get back and find the golden medallion to give it to my poor dad. Dude, man. Come on, give back my bag of jewels, man. Hey, fella. Come on. Hand it over. Hey, I thought you didn't get any jewels from the dream demons. Hey, big fella, come on. Hand it over. You see those castle tops up there? That ain't a castle. That's a theme park, right? It's not even open in this dream. You need to go down the slide to get to the other dream, dude. The new Americano shall seek the Queen of the Forest, a chance to get a cure for your curse. Come on, let's go. Man, a brother can't get no respect around here, man. Jeez! This must be the kind that small monk had spoke of. His family must have all been killed here. This is sad. This is a tragedy. I think he was lucky to escape alive. The Kazman leaves no prisoner. Everyone dies. Are we dreaming or is this our reality and when we wake, we enter the real dream? One never knows, do they? The truth may not be the truth. What did you say? Never mind. Hey, we gotta go and look for the Book of Wisdom. That little rascal 25 Cents led us here to nothing. It's not so bad. I mean, I had a good time dancing. Stop the fun and games. I have to stop this curse. I'm sick and tired of hearing about your curse. We're all cursed. We're all here. We're all suffering. You guys are always arguing over nothing. I was just trying to keep it real till we get that book. Nothing is real here. Everything is disjointed. I just wanted to have like a light moment. The anger that you have toward that girl, I mean, it's understandable. But you take it out-- you take it out on everyone. You must make a change. Try and push yourself. Cesar, I serve you. But can't you see, he is suffering deep inside. No, it's fine. I just-- I want to smile. I want to dance. I want to live. And I used to be so carefree with my heart. And then I let that witch enter my heart. And I trusted her so. Americano, I know what you mean. I understand you. I had the same thing happen to me. Maybe she wasn't a witch. Maybe she was a narcissist. Americano, look, we all have our sufferings. We all entered this dream for a reason. I think we entered this dream to help each other. We must all guide each other to the Book of Wisdom. I've grown to like you, Cesar. Your words are rare and kind, they make sense. And you're a kind soul. But no matter what poetry, no matter what art, it doesn't come to the mind that that witch's curse is still upon me like a dark cave. Americano needs the cure of she who is yet to come. We all know it. But look what you did. You had it in front of your face. The curse could have been gone. [whimsical music] Now y'all gotta deal with my big brother. Americano, we've been sent by the Queen of the Forest to speak with you. She has heard your call for her in the spirit of the forest. What the hell? She heard my call from all the way here? Man, you must be joking. That girl is a spirit reader. She heard me calling? I didn't even scream it out. How would she know? She reads the spirit like an old dog chasing a bone. What the hell are you talking about? I'm not gonna go see that queen again. There you go again, messing it up for all of us. Come on, Americano, think about all of us. Friends for eternity. OK. All right, already. Let's go see her. What's your name? Big Daddy. 'Cause I got it like that. I ain't going up that thing. Man, what you talking about? You have one moon left. It's freaking nightfall. So I think you should scurry your big butt up there, Cesar. Come on! [whimsical music] Queen of the Forest, why are you in the dark? Why are you alone? You have no subjects? No guards? What? What are you talking about, there ain't no guards? Man, I'll turn you into Caesar salad. I'm always alone. Where is that creature Americano? Did you bring him with you? Yes, I'm here. I'm in your realm. None of you cared enough to ask me any questions about my dream entrance. I have never seen such selfish men. You were in my presence. I gave my advice to you all and not one of you asked how and why I am here. She's right. We were all selfish when we entered the dream. It was all about me, me, me. Queen of the Forest, can you please forgive our selfish hearts and give us the Book of Wisdom? I wonder if any of you deserve to see the wisdom in the book. Americano, do you still carry around all that anger with you? Queen of the Forest, I am so sorry. Forgive me. You have given me what I should have given you, kindness. You have learned. You have. You see, Americano, I too entered this dream as a cursed queen. I had a boy who broke my heart. We are both heartbroken. We both gave our souls to the forbidden craft. There is a presence in this world and the world you come from. If we upset the presence, we suffer the consequences. We deserve all of our suffering. Do you not understand? We bring our suffering to ourselves. You were cursed too? I'm so sorry. You must feel really hurt. I learned that we mustn't think about ourselves, but we must learn about others. That is what I learned. The Book of Wisdom, it is upon us. Come on, man. You gotta wait for the queen to say what's up. The presence of this world and yours is happy. He gave the book to the doves and they dropped it upon us. You may look now. Mitro, seek and ye have found. The Book of Wisdom. It is upon us. It's blank like an empty void. The book is empty. You see, you must go back to yourselves. You must heal yourself. You must cure your own soul. For it is you who enters the presence alone and one. Ye seek outside of yourselves the answers. All the answers are within your spirits. The whole time they were here within us? You've learned, Cesar. What else have you learned? What do you feel about the woman in red, her selfish heart, her desire for money? Queen of the Forest, I have learned. I have learned to forgive her. Something must have happened to her. The medallion, the gold medallion. The presence is happy, so very pleased. Mitro, you, what have you learned? I have learned, my queen. I have learned to put my mother before myself. She is getting old and for years and years, she has toiled. She worked very hard. And all I cared about was winning. And that was our downfall. The presence is also pleased with you, Mitro. Go and lust for power no more. It is not winning that causes laughter, it is learning. What else have you learned, Americano? I have learned not to bring the daughter of misfortune upon me. And daughters who war against the presence who are taught to charms and spells, I will not allow my soul to be enticed by their trickery. I have learned to embrace kindness that you given me. I will not match anger that was bestowed upon me. And I will not project it on others. The presence is so very happy with you all. Your curse is broken. Listen, your curse is gone. [thunder rumbling] It's gone. I can feel it. Tell me, what can I do for you in return? Yes, long ago, I missed the entrance back to the Queen of Dreams. I passed too many moons, and thus I stay here for eternity. Unless-- unless I-- Tell me. What is it? What do you need? You don't have to do this alone. I'm ready to go home. Please, listen. I must knight one who is of a pure heart. Then my curse will be broken. I will be able to have one moon to enter back to the Queen of Dreams. How can I be your knight when I lost my sense of innocence because of that witch? Come on, man. Are you kidding? Come on, B. Do your thing. You must believe you can be pure again. You can be whole again. The presence knows when you forgive. You must forgive Americano. You are pure again. Stand with me, please. You must forgive yourself. Remember, like the small monk said. All is forgiven. All is in the winds of forget. All is forgiven. I-- I forgive myself. I do. [yells] [laughs] Go ye to the dream tunnel. Tell me. Tell me what you've learned. Come with us! [non-english speech] Hurry! The moon is near! Where's Mitro? He has already gone back home. Hurry, the moon is near. No! Come now! Mitro, what's wrong? Are you all right? Are you OK, son? Yes. It was just a dream. I think I'm ready to tell you what I wanted to tell you. OK, papa. What is it? I forgive you, son. It's OK, papa. I love you. That's OK. Thank you. Papa! Papa! Mitro, what's wrong? Are you all right? Son? Mother, I had a dream, a very strange dream. Son, I was crying all night. Can you please forgive me? I was so angry that you lost, but not at you. I was angry what we did to ourselves. Mama, don't worry. It is I who am sorry. I was wrong. I was only thinking of myself, my ego. All I wanted to do was win, win, win at all costs. I didn't think about you in the process. Mother, please forgive me. No, it is I that wants forgiveness. I was so mean. I was so unforgiving. Please. Mama, let's forgive each other. Where did you get that? Dad? What are you writing? I'm just writing something. I have a deadline tomorrow. Can I tell you something? Go ahead, son. I had this dream. It was so heart-aching. And I was happy when I awoke. Dad-- Son, you can tell me anything. I'm your dad. Come on. You were dead. It was so vivid. Well, we all gotta die sometime, don't we? But it was a dream. Can I ask you for a hug? Of course. Come here. It was just a dream, son. It's all right. Thank you for being my dad. It's my duty, son. Now look, go ye to the pub and have a good time. Enjoy yourself. Did you just say ye? You never say ye. I'm writing an old story about the old times. It was just a joke. Huh. OK. Good night, dad. Good night, son. (SINGING) Invited to follow you. Listening to madness. Have a good time! [upbeat rock music] [suspenseful electronic music] (SINGING) Invited to follow you. Listening to madness. Invited to follow you. Listening to madness. Invited to follow you. Listening to madness. Invited to follow you. Listening to madness. Invited to follow you. Listening to madness. Invited to follow you. Listening to madness. Invited to follow you. Listening to madness. Invited to follow you. Listening to madness.