Transcript for The Three Musketeers (1986) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (drums roll) (dramatic instrumental music) (crickets chirp) (lively dramatic string music) (muffled chatter and laughter) (knock thuds) (door opens) - Your Eminence, Milady is here. - Milady, what an unexpected... (dramatic music) (flames crackle) (soft mysterious harp music) - Well, I might be invited to sit down after my long journey from England. - Milady, rumor has it you have spent some time in the company of a certain English duke. (Milady laughs) - My, how very thorough your spies are, my dear Richelieu, but I'm sure even they cannot provide you with such pearls of information as I have acquired. - Hmm, maybe, Monsieur Rochefort, you would be kind enough to wait outside. (dark brooding music) Your information concerns the affair, (lightning crashes) which sometimes is too dangerous even for me to mention. - But not for me, dear cardinal. Now, come, sit here, and I shall explain to you how this royal affair can be of benefit to us. And you miserable wretches must now leave us to our deliberations. (blows softly) (cloud sparkles and pops) (spooky dreadful music) (Milady laughs) (muffled chatter) (crickets chirp) (body thuds) (footsteps shuffle) (D'Artagnan whistles) (hooves clop) - Hmm, upon my word. (soft mysterious music) (tense brooding music) (girl gasps) - You villain! (punch lands) (body thuds and honks) (footsteps shuffle) (soft pleasant music) (footsteps shuffle) (cat meows) (cat purrs) Madam, welcome to my humble abode. Permit me to offer you this cordial. May it wash away the memory of that infamous scar-faced villain. But why, my friends, was so delicious a creature peering into the lighted window, and why was she attacked? - You are Monsieur D'Artagnan, are you not? - I am, Madam. I am a Gascon and a king's musketeer. - My name is Constance Bonacieux. I have the honor to be her Majesty the Queen's seamstress, and my life is in very great danger. - Can you tell me why? - [Constance] On account of a love affair. - A love affair? - Yes. - Great heavens! She means the notorious affair between the queen and the English duke of Buckingham, which we never mention because it is too dangerous to do so. Who was in that house you spied upon? Was it the queen's mortal enemy, Cardinal Richelieu? - Sir, I can say no more. - Madam, your meaning is as clear as crystal. We must inform my fellow musketeers at once. - I knew you would be my champion. - [D'Artagnan] One moment. Who did you say you are? - Constance Bonacieux. - Bonacieux, Bonacieux. Don't I know that name? - Very probably, monsieur. I'm your landlord. - Ah. - You owe me three months rent. - Ah. - Consider it paid, sir. My life is more important. - Spoken like a musketeer, madam. Follow me. (soft mysterious string music) (footsteps shuffle) (crickets and frogs chirp) (muffled chatter and laughter) (body thuds) - Come on, Porthos, old boy. Give us a song. - Same as usual? - Bravo! ♪ His health to the king and death to his foes ♪ ♪ Raise up your glasses and down the wine goes ♪ ♪ We'll stick all our cares up the cardinal's nose ♪ (people laugh) ♪ Raise up your glasses ♪ And down the wine goes ♪ Raise up your glasses and down the wine goes ♪ ♪ His health to the queen and be damned to her foes ♪ (people cheer and laugh) ♪ Raise up your glasses ♪ And down the wine goes ♪ We'll stick all our cares ♪ Up the cardinal's nose (people cheer and laugh) ♪ Raise up your glasses and down the wine goes ♪ ♪ Raise up your glasses and down the wine goes ♪ - D'Artagnan! My friends, Madame Bonacieux. Madame, the king's musketeer, Athos. - Madame. - And this is Porthos. - Down the wine goes, eh, D'Artagnan? (laughs) Good evening, madame. - Aramis. My friends, there is a matter of peril, honor, and the utmost secrecy. - Peril? - Honor? - The utmost secrecy? He means that Cardinal Richelieu has discovered the love affair which is too dangerous to mention between our Queen Anne and the English duke of Buckingham. - The King's honor is at stake. France herself is in danger. - And the honor of the queen is also endangered. - What, my friends, did I tell you? - Well, we answer the call of king, country, and this beautiful lady. - And so one for all! - [Unison] And all for one! Huzzah! (tense brooding music) (ship groans) (birds chirp) (carriage rattles) (hooves clop) (spoon clinks) (king sips) (door opens) - His eminence, the Cardinal Richelieu, your Majesty's chancellor. Sire, may I beg you to read this letter? (page rustles) - Who wrote it? - Her Majesty, the queen. - My wife? Hmm. Hmm. He seeks to convince me that the queen is in love with this Buckingham person, which, if it were true, would be too dangerous even for me to mention. Hmm. Well, what of it? The queen writes to her father, the emperor of Austria. - Pray. Continue, sire, until you reach the postscriptum. - The what? - The PS. At the bottom, sir. - Ah! (drums roll) - Common persons like you should not even watch our meeting between the king of France and his cardinal. - Hmm? What? - Sire, I did not speak. - There's nothing wrong with this. - Her Majesty asks her father, the emperor, to use his influence to end my career. - Of course she does. She hates you as much as you hate her. - She wants England and Spain to invade France. - What do you expect me to do? - Sir, do not propose to give a fete on the 3rd of October? - A fete? Yes. What's that got to do with England and Spain? - Nothing, sire, nothing at all. - T'one of his cunning plots. - Your majesty spoke? - Yes, I mean no. - Do not forget, sire, the evening before the fete to tell the queen that you should like to see how her new diamond studs become her. - Diamond studs? It's a punning clot, isn't it? - Your Majesty? - A cunning plot. - Sire, I am chancellor. Would I intrigue against my king? - Hmm. Can I trust him, hmm? That's the third time he's mentioned those diamond studs. Well, Is he trying to insinuate something? Well, speak up. If you've got an opinion, I can't hear you. (tense music) I hope you realize that this is why we kings deserve all the crown jewels and rich pastries we can get, because we are very solitary. (soft mysterious music) (mouse chitters) (cheese whistles downward) (paws patter) (knock thuds) (door opens) - Madame, it's his Majesty. - (laughs) Madame Bonacieux, my dear. - Louis, you seem agitated. - Agitated? Me? (laughs) Never. How could it possibly say that I'm agitated? You know very well that I'm as cuke as a coolcumber. - Oh dear, why can't he be tall, dark, and word perfect like my duke of Buckingham? - Hmm? What? - Nothing. - Did she utter the words buke of Duckingham? Madame, there will shortly be a fete at wish I, at wish I wish you to appear in ceremonial dress and with the diamond studs that I gave you for your birthday. - My diamond studs? - Your diamond studs. (soft tense music) (door opens and closes) (queen sobs) - I am lost. I am betrayed on all sides. - Madame, upon my soul, I am ready to die for your Majesty. - Those studs Which the king speaks of, I gave them to the duke of Buckingham. - (gasps) Madame! - (sobs) I am lost. My honor and my life are lost. - We must have those studs back again. - But how? - Someone must be sent to the duke. - Who? Who can I trust? - Trust me, madame. I will find a messenger. (oars splash) (dark brooding music) (coins clink) (hooves clop) (bells jingle) (soft mysterious music) (cats yowl) (footsteps shuffle) (footsteps thud) (footsteps shuffle) (soft mysterious music) (birds coo) - To save the queen's honor. - To protect his Majesty. - For the glory of France. - To spite the cardinal? - Shh. Who's out there? (birds coo) (wings flap) (cat purrs) - Ah, it's only Miette. - Good gentlemen, say I can rely on you. (swords unsheathe) - One for all and all for one! - [Unison] Huzzah! - We leave at once for England! (tense brooding music) (tense brooding music) (Richelieu snores) (window opens) - Your eminence. (Richelieu groans) Your eminence. - What? What? What is it, Rochefort? - D'Artagnan and his three Musketeers, your eminence. - What about them? - They have set off for England, your eminence, on a mission for the queen. - What? Stop them! They must be stopped at all costs! (curtain rustles) (frogs and crickets chirp) (bells jingle) (hooves clop) (soft mysterious music) (hooves thunder) (birds chirp) (horse neighs) (hooves thunder) (birds chirp) (hooves thunder) (chickens cluck and peck) (hooves clop) - Why, there's four more horsemen so early in the day. Something must be afoot. - One word from you that I am Cardinal Richelieu's man, and I'll cut your throats. (soft dramatic music) - Morning, gentlemen. Breakfast? - With wine, landlord, with wine. - Good old Porthos. Good old boy. (muffled chatter) Fine weather, sir. Have you ridden hard? - Me, very hard. You sir, will you drink to the health of the cardinal? - Me, sir? - You, sir. - I will, sir. Will you drink with me to the health of the king? - I have no king, sir, except the cardinal. - Sir, you must be drunk! - Sir, you insult me. (sword unsheathes) (tense music) (people gasp) - A fight! - It was a trap, Porthos, and you fell in! - Could one of his bulk avoid it? - En garde. - Kill the fellow quickly and join us as soon as you can. - En garde! (dramatic music) (chair clatters) (swords clang and whoosh) (liquor sloshes) (cup smashes) (body thuds) - God be with you, fine Porthos. Gentlemen, we must away. (sword whistles) (people gasp) (people sigh) (swords clang) (chickens cluck) (horses neigh) (hooves slam) (hooves thunder) (windmill creaks) (water trickles) (hooves thunder) (horses sputter) - This looks ordinary enough, but let's be on our guard. (birds chirp) (tense music) - Fellow, overseer, clear the road. (tense brooding music) (gun cocks) It's an ambush! - Let none escape, lads! (gunshot blasts) (D'Artagnan cries out) - One for all and all for one! - [Unison] Huzzah! (hooves thunder) (gunshot blasts) (gunshot blasts) (pants rip) - They're getting away! Shoot 'em, quickly! (gunshot blasts) - I'm hit! (horses pant) - Ride on! (hooves clop) - Oh, poor gentlemen, but don't you worry, sir. I'll look after him. - This is for a doctor and yourself. - [Woman] Oh! Good bless you, sir. (coins clink) - The question is can the two of them reach Armien by nightfall? - The question is, can we reach Armien by nightfall? - By nightfall? We must. (soft tense music) (crickets and frogs chirp) (dramatic music) (hooves clop) (bell jingles) - It's them. (muffled chatter and laughter) (lute strums) - Good evening. - Good evening to you, sir, and my word, what a good evening it is, sir. Would you like a night's lodging, sir? - We would, and stabling. - Stabling, sir? Precisely. (dramatic music) - D'Artagnan, ride! I'm taken! - Get them both! (wine splashes) (gunshot blasts) (bullet ricochets) (people scream) (footsteps shuffle) (items clatter) (swords clang and whoosh) - Make God protect you, brave Athos! (hooves thunder) (birds chirp) (soft music) (horse sputters) (dramatic music) (hooves clop) (bells jingle) - Do you sail to England? - We do, sir. - Can you take me? - Nothing easier, sir, but no one's allowed to cross without written permission from the cardinal. - Curses! - I have the permission. (waves lap) Here it is. - You must have it counter signed by the harbor master over there. - Oh, very well. (slow tense music) - Monsieur, you appear to be in great haste. - No one more so, monsieur. - Then I am sorry, for I must ask of you a favor. - Sir. - I want that order you carry since I lack one of my own. - My brave young man, I... I do believe you're D'Artagnan. - At you're service. - En garde! (swords whoosh) (swords clang) (dramatic music) (men grunt) - For Athos! For Porthos! For Aramis! (Rochefort cries out) (body thuds) (tense brooding music) For me, safe passage to England. (Rochefort grunts) (body thuds) ♪ What do we do with a drunken sailor ♪ ♪ What do we do with a drunken sailor ♪ ♪ What do we do with a drunken sailor ♪ ♪ Early in the morning (anchor chain creaks) ♪ Way hay and up she rises (muffled chatter) ♪ Way hay and up she rises ♪ Way hay and up she rises ♪ Early in the morning (sludge squelches) - Right, mister mate! - All right, cap'n! - Helmsman, three points east! (bird caws) (soft dramatic music) - Ay ay, captain. Three points east it is! (waves crash) (wind blows) (hooves thunder) (dramatic music) (hooves thunder) (birds chirp) (muffled chatter) (mallet hits ball) (people cheer and clap) (hooves thunder) (horse sputters) - My lord of Buckingham. - Who are you? - Sir, my name is D'Artagnan. I bring this letter from France. (dramatic music) (door opens) - Come in, sir. Tell the queen of your country and of my heart what you have seen. (soft mysterious music) Our queen requires her diamonds. Her will be done like that of God in all things. Egads! - My lord. - All is lost! Two studs are missing. - Missing? How? - This is the work of the cardinal and that woman whose name I will not mention. - My Lord, you don't mean- - Don't speak her name. - My lord, we must have new studs made. - Impossible! - It must be done, my lord, and quickly. We have only three days until the royal fete. (dramatic piano music) (water trickles) (muffled chatter) (soft dramatic instrumental music) - What? Oh, don't say we've been dueling again, Athos. - An affair of honor, your majesty. - (scoffs) Not you as well, Aramis. - An accident with a gun, your Majesty. - With a gun? Oh goodness me. (muffled chatter and laughter) (sighs) Accident or affair of honor? - Nothing so splendid, your Majesty. A free fight. - A fright fee? - Yes, sire, against a tavern bully, sire. - You had too much weight for him, I suppose. (laughs) - [Richelieu] May a humble servant make your Majesty a gift? (tense brooding music) - Diamonds? What does this mean? - If the queen is wearing her 12 studs, sire, and there are only 10, ask her who stole the two we have here. - Would not such a question be very, very dangerous? (crowd gasps and applauds) (soft dramatic music) What's this? - Your Majesty, it is the queen. (crowd cheers and applauds) - (gasps) My dear. - Your Majesty. - Wearing your diamond studs, I see. - Yes, sire, all 12 of them. - What? How? - Splendid, splendid. So now we have 14, eh, Richelieu? - With your Majesty's gracious permission. - Your eminence does me such honor. (dark brooding music) - Well, nevermind that now. Now where are the type of top of stables? - Sables, dearest? - Just what I said, Anne, supper. - Late, my dear. The royal ballet is about to begin. - (gasps) Yes. (clears throat) Bring on the boyal rallet prancers! - Oh, really, Louis? (crickets chirp) (dramatic music) (crowd murmurs) (dramatic opera music) (soft dramatic music) (dramatic opera music) (fireworks pop and crackle) (soft dramatic music) (water trickles) (footsteps shuffle) (water laps) (crickets and frogs chirp) (fishing line plunks) - Well, so far so good. The queen's honor's been saved. The problem now is that the duke of Buckingham wants to invade France, kick out the cardinal, and Ling Kouis. (laughs) I mean King Louis, and marry the queen himself. Which of these do you think she'd be happier with? I mean, Duke's very handsome, but the king is a king. Whatever happens, I don't think that anything bad can happen to people like me anymore. (hooves clop) - [Rochefort] Constance Bonacieux. - Yes? (Constance gasps) - Quick, get her into the coach. (muffled crying) (footsteps shuffle) - Gentlemen, the fact is that she's been kidnapped. - Come now, D'Artagnan. We can't prove that. - But we know that it is true, and we can guess the perpetrator. - You don't mean- - I think he does. - Of course I do! - He does. He means the wicked Milady who really is too dangerous to mention. - I mean Milady whom I at least am not afraid to mention. (soft mysterious music) (wind blows) (pages flutter) - Phew. The last time I mentioned her name in broad daylight, a big toad hopped out of my fireplace. - Was he medium or well done? - Medium? (laughs) I say, Aramis, you are a wit, you know. - The question is where is Milady? (soft harp music) - Milady, a ship awaits you. It will take you to England where, if the duke of Buckingham will not stop his designs against France and my person, you will create one of those events that change the destinies of nations. - Your eminence means, I presume, a knife thrust. Observe, miserable wretches, that nothing is too dangerous for me to say. - I mean, Milady, that it is not always necessary to put a precise name to what we all know to be for the wellbeing of our country. I mean very little more than that your ship awaits you. (soft dramatic music) (ship groans) (waves crash) (lively tense music) (birds chirp) (hooves clop) (ship groans) (muffled chatter) - Milady? So you have returned to England. - Who are you? - John Felton, Milady, an officer of the king's regiment. You must come with me, please. - Am I under arrest? - Yes, Milady, on the orders of the duke of Buckingham. - Ha! (dramatic music) (birds chirp) (door opens) (Milady growls) (breath shoots) (flames crackle) - Do not think, my friend, that these walls can ever hold me. - They can hold you, Milady, and will. - My lord of Buckingham. - Felton, this woman is young, beautiful, and possesses all earthly seductions. She is a monster who, at 25 years of age, has committed more crimes than you can imagine. Guard us against her. I command you. - My Lord, I swear it! (soft dramatic music) - Do not imagine that poor Felton has not already fallen in love with me because he has. (wind blows) (soft opera music) (John sighs and moans) You see, he is outside, sighing for me. (soft opera music) (John sighs and moans) (body whistles downward) (soft tense music) Tonight, my plan is simple. I shall pretend to be horribly ill. (blows softly) (cloud sparkles and pops) (dramatic opera music) Ah! Ooh! Ah! Ooh! (door opens) Ah! - Milady! - Don't touch me. - What have you done? - There's a death in lifelong captivity. - Wait, heavens, have you poisoned yourself? - The Lord have pity on me. (soft mysterious music with echoing opera) - I am in love with her. If he has to die, so will I. If not, I will do whatever she commands. I cannot help myself. - Ah, ooh! Ah, ooh! Ah! - I beg you to be reasonable. (breath shoots) (flames crackles) (John screams) (feet thud) - This hat cost me three guineas. - Can you or can you not release me and murder the duke of Buckingham? - Release you? Of course I can. I love you! I can do anything. I can do whatever I please and whatever make you happy. Of course I can release you, and for your love, of course, I can stab to death that infamous, vile monster, the duke of Buckingham. (dramatic music) (muffled shouting) - Well done, brave lads, well done. Our cause is just. It is one in which we can one and all be proud. (muffled shouting) When we land in France, we shall teach them a lesson, I promise you. We'll scatter their armies and we'll topple their Cardinal Richelieu, I can tell you. Forward, lads! There's a loot and pillage for all of you! Forward! (muffled shouting) (waves lap) (footsteps shuffle) - Felton? Why are you here? Good heavens, man! What's happened to your hat? - It was burnt, my lord. - Burnt? - By the power of love, my lord. - Love? Who knows that power better than I, Felton? And yet, are you sure? I mean, was it spontaneous combustion, or do you greet me with some insolence? - Yes, lord villain, a very happy insolence. - Felton, halt! Help me! Felton, I... (duke groans) (discordant dramatic music) (body thuds) - Milady is here. She has a safe conduct. We will sail to France and live happily ever after. (soft tense music) My love, are you happy now? Can we set sail? - That is the man who killed the duke of Buckingham! Seize him! Execute him! - Milady! (whimpers) - Oh, useless, stupid fool. But then, most Englishmen are, you know. (cloud sparkles and pops) (dramatic music) (hooves clop) (dramatic music) - Our situation is, gentlemen, that has defenders of the queen's honor, we know that the duke of Buckingham was murdered for spite by the cardinal's agent Milady. We, the king's Musketeers, know also that Buckingham was assassinated to save France from his invasion. We are soldiers. We let others unravel these complications. What concerns us is the fate of the innocent, in this case, Madame Bonacieux. - Gentlemen, Scarface Rochefort was seen this morning. - This morning? - He rides to meet my lady at Bethune. - [Porthos] Bethune? - Find Milady and we find Constance Bonacieux. But we've been ordered to join the King's army in the opposite direction. - Nothing will stop me. I ride for Bethune. One for all, gentlemen. - [Unison] And one for all! Huzzah! (bright lively music) (birds chirp) (bell tolls) (soft gentle choral music) - Hush, my child, hush. You have been very ill. Your mind has been in very great danger. (Constance sobs) - I'm being kept against my will. - Hush now, child. There is good news for you. Your benefactor is here. - Who is my benefactor, and where am I? - Milady de Winter is your benefactor, and you are safe here in the convent of Bethune. - Milady de... How can these holy women be so deceived? But then I know beautiful lies believed in life as well as in stories like this. - Are you well enough to see her? - (cries) Of course, but- - She wishes to take you away from us. - Oh? - I will ask her to come in. - To take me away? Why? How can this be? (dramatic music) - Madame Bonacieux. - Milady de Winter. (blow shoots) (flames roar) (soft gentle choral music) - My plans are accomplished. Buckingham is dead. - (gasps) What? No! (sighs) - What? Do you faint? I must give you a cordial. (dramatic music) (liquid pours) (vial cork pops) (drop plops) (drink fizzles and bubbles) (soft gentle choral music) This is not the revenge I had intended, but it will suffice. Here. Drink this, my dear. - What is it? - Drink it. - Thank you. (footsteps shuffle) - Hurry, Milady. We must leave at once. They are approaching the convent. - So they are in sight already. - They? Who? - Only four men who will arrive too late. - We must go through the cloisters. - [Constance] But the sister said that I was to go away, too. - Yes, indeed. Yours is the longest journey. (soft dramatic piano music) (door shuts) - The longest journey? What can she... Oh. (whimpers) Surely not. Oh! I am poisoned! (whimpers) (glass shatters) (dramatic music) (door opens) - Oh! Who did this? - (whimpers) Milady. - Milady. (Constance whimpers and sighs) - My friends, have no fear. I am D'Artagnan, and this foul deed will be revenged! (drums roll) (thunder booms) (bird chitters) (thunder crashes) - Follow me. (water laps) (footsteps shuffle) (dark brooding music) (oars splash) (thunder crashes) - I say, D'Artagnan, who is this fellow in the mask? - Athos warned us not to ask. - Sometimes I wonder if I'm taken seriously. You know that feeling. - [D'Artagnan] We'll see soon enough, good friend. (thunder crashes) (flames crackle) (Milady cries out) (thunder booms) (door opens) Oh, no you don't. (door opens) (thunder booms) (blow shoots) (flames crackle) (blow shoots) (flames crackle) - What do you want? - We come to judge you according to your crimes. - What crimes? - Before God and before men, I accuse this woman of having poisoned Constance Bonacieux. - I accuse this woman of having procured the murder of the duke of Buckingham. - I know her crimes. I married this woman when she was a young girl. - What? - Good Lord. - It's true, I'm sorry to say. (blow shoots) (soft dramatic music) - What? No flames, Milady, no black arts remaining. Look upon her shoulder. You will see the brand of the common criminal. - Oh, surely not. (dramatic music) (thunder booms) - [Milady] It was done by witchcraft, by my enemies. - You lie. It was done by me, the executioner of Lille. (footsteps thud) - Heaven help me. I am done for. - Milady, your crimes have wearied men on earth and God in heaven. You are condemned and you shall die. (crickets chirp) (oars splash) (soft tense music) (footsteps shuffle) (water laps) (thunder rumbles) (thunder crashes) (wind howls) (birds chirp) (bell tolls) (soft lively music) (hooves clop) - Poor, sweet Constance. - That my own wife could perpetrate such evil. - And the Cardinal Richelieu, what a tangled web he weaves. - But honor has been saved, my brave comrades. - Ah, yes, indeed. - Honor. (hooves clop) - Evil has been vanquished. - [Unison] Huzzah! (swords clang) (horses sputter) (dramatic music)