Transcript for A Fairy Tale (2020) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Grandmother It seems that Xiaoqian may not succeed this time. Her body is made of the essence of the sun and the moon Which is much better than yours. Certainly it'll be harder to shape the body "Eight hundred years of practice is only one last step away." Now shape it Sure enough, she looks the same. Thank you, Grandma You know why I turned you into what you are now Eight hundred years ago The Black Mountain Master had an enemy named Qin Yangming He died in the war between man and spirit There is now news of his present life And then I turned you into the look Of his lover You shall go to the Lanruo Temple at the frontier of human and spirit Find Qin Yangming And kill him Bring me back the Taixuan scriptures on him Yes Grandma, I can also kill him for you Bring the Taixuan scriptures back You are not qualified to interrupt Have a look Don't miss it This is the only one at a genuine price. The only store have a look Cheat neither the old nor the young Sir, takes a look at this One by one Sir This safe symbol Qin Yangming made it by himself It's cheaper for you now. It's a tael of silver. Confucius do not speak evil words I advise you not to believe in such thing Sir, this sword was used by Yan Chixia to kill evil spirit kill demons with infinite power five taels of silver for you I am a scholar You can find someone else for this killing thing You must come to play, boy Our Lanru Town was the ancient battlefield of the war between man and spirit Having a guide like me you are all promised to feel like home I am a teacher I come for Mayor He turned out to be a poor scholar disturbing me to make money Mr.He, here is your teacher Leave, all of you So stupid, no wonder to ask someone to teach you Mr.Ning Mayor He What a good thing Mr.Ning came here. That is a very good thing I'll take you to school We will start our classes tomorrow We haven't talked about our wages yet Those are trivial things We must teach people in line with principles The town here There are fewer and fewer learner There is not even a person who settles accounts and draws. But mayor He We're not learning to draw symbols Right, not for drawing symbols Mr. Ning has a hard journey. Come, let me help you Let's go teach people It's really not for the symbols Here is a beautiful and the outstanding place there must be talented men every year morning, mayor He Lao Wang The harvest is good this year I understand smart, good Mayor He, bye Mayor He, why do you take me here Front is the school please Mr.Ning This is the school where you teach Just this broken temple Young people should be willing to suffer hardships make sense humble room, but virtuous This is the place where the Mountain leader lives Where do I live Then you will be the mountains leader You live here Mr.Ning Later, if I was promoted More teachers will be hired I'm the only teacher here Young people should have the courage to take responsibility A scholar must be resolute. Perfect words You pack it up by yourself We will start classes tomorrow The cleaning is also my job Young people should have the courage to bear hardships Before a great duty falls upon the people like you You must first work hard and strain your muscles and bones. Mayor He Can you add some more allowance to me have some rest Sorry, sorry, sorry Who are you? Master Who is talking Where are you I'm here No wonder the town is full of people selling safety symbol and artifacts Unexpectedly, there were real supernatural events here evil spirit I'd rather be open and aboveboard. I would advise you to leave here quickly I am a spirit hunter, not an evil spirit What has it got to do anything with me I have been stuck here for eight hundred years You were my teacher in a previous life Only you can unlock the seal and let me out Nonsense How can humans live for eight hundred years Besides, when did I accept apprentices? You must be an evil spirit suppressed by the monk I would advise you to repent Don't do anything wrong there is nothing better than knowing mistakes and correcting them. Master, you are more talktive than before Don't talk to me again, and I'm not your master Help It's you Sir, save me I'm not dreaming about it again Evil spirit, I am frank and forthright No matter how you lure it I won't fall for it Go How did he know that I was a spirit Sir I accompanied my father to Qingtian as a county magistrate But when I passed by Lanruo Town I was hurt by a mountain thief Save me Then you are certainly not an evil spirit Get up, lady rest for a while first I'll get water to clean up your wounds I am so cold It gets cold if you bleed. I'm going to make the fire for you I won't be cold when you hold me The saint said brother-in-law can help Sister-in-law if she is drowning If it's emergency, it is fine to deal with it with special way But we have other ways right now Lady, I will go get you the quilt Sorry, so sorry I don't mean it I really could't help myself I'll help you bandage the wound now Do not be disrespectful to see things you should not Lady, this foot of yours is also hurt Sorry, so sorry I really didn't mean it Lady, I'll go and help you get the quilt now Right, I will make a fire for you again Oh, by the way, do you want to eat something Forget it, I'll get the quilt what a good man But I have no choice, do not blame on me Nine Yang constitution The evil spirit is haunting Dare to hurt my master Take your life The hunter The evil spirit dares to come to earth Die Lady, lady You would die if I had not driven her away You Again Of course it's me You! I was really tired and confused I quarreled with a clock in a dream Real nonsense It is still too early to dream Stop it, I shall wake Master It's not a dream You, you, and what the hell are you I am your apprentice in your previous life, Yan Chixia Don't you remember That was the evil spirit It was I who saved you It's not you I will tell you that again My apprentices merely are the students coming to class tomorrow I warn you if you harass me again I'm going to buy magic weapons and seals on the street now. I will tear you apart Master I'm really your eldest disciple Yan Cabernet. Let me out first Nonsense Master, it hurts, stop you stay Master, please save me out Only you can save me from the seal Master You can't be fascinated by women again The monster just won't stop What on earth are you... Sir, save me It's another mountain thief Yes I will go to town to find you a doctor Sir Don't go Lady, your hands are so cold He came again He even followed here Lady, you take some rest I got here Brother Did you see a woman in white? No Really? I really didn't see her Have you ever seen her? You're annoying I'll tell you this This was formerly a monk temple and is now a school You come here at midnight to find a woman Aren't you shameless? That woman is an evil spirit Are you not afraid of death? What woman? I don't understand what you're talking about What are you doing? It's private residence What a thief! Broke into my house in the middle of the night Aren't there any law? Who is in the bed? Who is in the bed? Of course it'd my wife in the bed Wait for a while Let me tell you Now it is very late We're going to rest and you just go away You haven't gone yet Go, men and women should not be in the same room Brother-in-law can help sister-in-law if she is drowning If it's emergency, it is fine to deal with it with special way to deal with it with special ways to deal with it with special ways Escape by crafty scheme Today I Qin Yangming sealed the two realms with my own essence blood May the two worlds not attack each other May the world be peaceful Lady School starts today Cultivate with a straight heart Body repair and then reunite then govern the state and then the world will be in peace Teacher Wake up Students Do you know what are you studying for In order to get the title Only recognition can make business To marry and have children so vulgar, of course, is to rule the world No, no, no Learning is nourishing Only by nourishing can we get along better with people The whole world refers to the people around you If you cannot even get along well with the people around you How can you give the benefit to the whole world Righteousness is far away from us That's why relatives and friends are the most important things Do you understand? So your wives and children are most important You That's all for today Go back now Yes, sir The most important thing is to look alike the teacher's wife You talk too much, just go Lady, why did you come out The bad guy is looking for you everywhere Quickly go back and hide I gotta go Or you will leave a little later I'll send you What if you meet the bad guy again? It's dangerous You leave, too Lady Sorry, I don't know your name yet My name is Nie Xiaoqian You'd better leave now I'm leaving The damn mage shook me out of the bell Fortunately, I am fast enough Master, go This is the great evil spirit of the spirit world Let me deal with her and you go fast You were the bell of last night Master It was you hurt my master I know what you're doing You must come for Xuantai scriptures I don't understand what you are talking about What scriptures? Besides, this thing is mine it's thief if you pick it without asking Please respect yourself Master, you can't be that stubborn It must be this demon woman Die Fight and kill all day long Can't it be any more harmonious Um Cut off demons and protect the human world Master, that's what you taught me Stop First, I am not your master Second, I can't and don't want to protect the human world No need to let others protect me Third, the world is so big Can't everything just live well together? And then those spirits, demons they did not offend us Why do you eradicate people for no reason Are you stupid? Of course the good and evil things can't coexist, the evil should be eradicated Well then I assume that you are an evil thing Master, you can't be seduced by this woman This is dangerous Last time you were hurt by her Is the so-called learning from your lessons You stay far away from me and don't talk to me anymore Where do you teach? Such a big guy with so little courage dreaming to kill the demons Lady Xiaoqian, you go to the inner house to hide I got here Go I just checked it out nearby The temple aura is messy There must be evil spirits You hold this seal to protect your safety Thanks I want to give this to you What? This is the word of the saint It can release your anger The Analects of Confucius This is where I teach You always engage with these strange powers How can I teach? Wait for death I am a decent man I'm not afraid of your threats Get out of the way? What do you want Is this also your private residence? Evil spirit How dare you kick me And that's a person You are just too bold He flew away over there Boring I was possessed by the evil spirit Leave, don't worry about my safety I'm going to kill You go and I got here I can't control myself anymore I want to kill, I want to kill I'll drag him down and you get away Wait, wait, wait Wait, wait I'm good, I'm good It's just a joke I would like to tell you There is no evil spirit in broad light You should not be so superstitious I am kidding with you, too Hey I will let you go this time Xiaoqian, Xiaoqian I beat the wicked man away Xiaoqian You are not qualified to compare with her Black mountain, as long as I get the Tai Xuan Sutra I must revive you Xiaoqian Xiaoqian I thought you were gone I came here to say goodbye to you Almost met the bad guy during the day Are you better? Yes, thanks My name is Ning Caichen Ning, you are really a good man Xiaoqian, take a rest first I have had this picture since I was young Don't know where it came from It is really somewhat similar to you But it didn't mean to be impolite Ning Can you give me this stone? Stone? Of course Of course not It's you, the clock again Master The Tai Xuan Sutra is the Lord of the spiritual world The treature of Fengxi Lingzun You can't just give it to evil spirits I had this stone since I was young I will send it as I wish What does that have anything to do with you? This is the evidence for your reincarnation This is none of your business You Fat ass, don't you dare bother me again Or I'll let the fairy master take you away Believe it or not Master, you can't do this to me I am your favorite master disciple You even promised to pass me the position in the future and protect the people together I'll pass the title to you now Off you go No This evil spirit pestered you and I want to protect you You Who do you think is the evil spirit? I think you are just like an evil spirit Sir, how can you accept such a student? Don't try to instigate here Fat ass, I am your master, right? Yes Disciples should do anything for the master Yes You go out and guard it The fairy teacher arrives and you report Master, the stone Take it and leave I knew that you still adore me the most Call me anytime if you need, Master Demon, do not seduce my master Go away Alright Meet a soul in a life A thought for tears Looking back for the moment Warm memories remains the next life Eight hundred years ago The Black mountain master has a sworn enemy named Qin Yangming I want you to find Qin Yangming And kill him I gotta go Xiaoqian Let me see you off No My father will set out for Qingtian County tomorrow I will never come back again Ning Caichen You should leave the Lanruo Temple quickly I will ask your father to let them stay Xiaoqian Sir, do not come back Xiaoqian Xiaoqian Mr. Ning is dead Mr. Ning Mr. Ning Mr. Ning is dead My heart is dead I did not say that Mr.Ning's heart was dead I mean that the students of the school are dead There're students dying at the beginning of the scholol What should we do? Go away Where is the evil spirit? What evil spirit? After she was wounded by me she fled to Lanruo Temple She had killed these people I know Well, you evil thief You can't kill Xiaoqian Then frame her as an evil spirit I think you killed all these students Mayor He Go send someone to arrest him What are you talking about? He is the fairy master of Zi Xiaomen Come to our Lanruo town for business How could he be a robber? Fairy Master? Now you know the truth It is impossible that Xiaoqian will kill people She's not evil spirit So what's her story? She... She followed her father to Qingtian county as a magistrate Then when she passed by our town of Lanruo She was chased by a mountain thief, and I saved her Mr. Ning The magistrate of Qingtian has not been replaced I know that very well Yes, when did Qingtian county change the county magistrate? That's right We don't go to Qingtian through here We won't pass here She might be an evil spirit Oh, no, that's evil spirit Oh God Fairy master, fairy master Xiaoqian, where are you? Are you human being or spirit? Xiaoqian I'm sorry, lady I got the wrong guy Then go ahead and make the mistake Am I not as good as her Men and women should keep private space Would you please self-respect? Men and women should keep distance And you were just holding me I... Sir, I'm a good one for you Men admire the women like me Don't they? Lady Everybody loves that bitch Stop! Evil spirit Fatty, don't hurt her You got your eye on another? No She knows Xiaoqian and I need to talk to her How am I worse than that bitch? Who's there? Come out Xiaoqian, what are you doing here? That's the question I should ask you What are you doing here? You haven't done anything for so long Grandma sent me to rush you That Ning Caichen is not a reincarnation of Qin Yangming He didn't have Taixuan scriptures either How do you know that? It was left to me to do the work None of your business You killed so many students Got the spirit hunter on the alert How am I supposed to do my work? I alerted the spirit hunter You've been on his radar for a long time and beat up by him And you want to blame it on me So you were already there watching And you didn't lend a hand If I told grandma about it She's gonna beat you Go back now Sister, I made stupid mistake I don't dare anymore I don't dare anymore The evil spirit - Kill this guy first Fatty Xiaoqian Did you kill them all, Xiaoqian? You are human beings We are what you call evil spirits You kill us and we kill you What's so weird about that? So you really are the evil spirit Xiaoqian That's what Qin Yangming's reincarnate look like? Let me kill him for you Xiaoqian, why did you do this? Why? Say something Wait a minute Master! Why are you still protecting them? Xiaoqian, leave They are evil spirits Killing all those innocent people Fatty Shut up if you want me to be your master Or you may kill me, too You... Xiaoqian, do not ever hurt anyone again Go! Ning Chaichen, don't stay in Lanruo Temple Master! Crocodile tears Even if you have saved me once I won't appreciate you either I have already told Grandma that Ning was the reincarnation of Qin Yangming Grandma will come here immediately Don't you like Ning Caichen? I'll see how you explain to her Why don't you kill me? I don't care that you saved me You don't have to pity me Not at all You are my sister Why would I kill you? Xiaoqian Xiaoqian I miss you so much In fact, I was a five-color stone Staying at the bottom of the Canglan valley Only through eight hundred years practice can I transform into human being But I was controlled by Grandma Miserably being her slave forever I will take you out of here My true body is in her command There is never a way to leave She asked me to find out Qin Yangming's reincarnation Take away your Taixuan Scriptures But I Taixuan scriptures? The stone? Yes Xiaoqian, I can give you the stone But you have to promise me one thing Do not harm people any longer I didn't kill those students Nor did Ahan Their blood were sucked drained But there was no wound Ahan has no such power She can't do it yet Then who will that be? I'm not sure But it could be Grandma Go What's wrong? Bloody moon covering the sky... It's Grandma Go What's that? It's grandma's tail Caichen Xiaoqian Caichen, are you ok? I'm fine Xiaoqian, go Just leave me Nine-Yang Body Sure enough, the reincarnation of Qin Yangming Caichen Master, I'm coming to save you Fatty, are you all right? I'm fine, Master All right Yan Chixia broke the seal You will also be buried here today Kill me if you can Master, use Taixuan Scriptures What? Fatty, fatty Damn, how dare you screw up my business? Everyone hates evil spirits If you are full of benevolence and righteousness How can you watch those students get killed without taking an action to rescue? This is called leading snakes out of the hole So how are you different from us? Stop the nonsense, just die Xiaoqian, Xiaoqian! Xiaoqian Xiaoqian, Xiaoqian! I have damaged the root of the snake What are you still crazy about? Fairy Master, Xiaoqian was captured by her Save her, please She is an evil spirit Together with the evil snake spirit No, Spirit is not necessarily evil Xiaoqian is a good one I beg you to save her I beg you Stupid and obstinate Fairy Master! Xiaoqian Bitch I provided you with food, clothing, and education But you dare to fornicate with outsiders Taking advantage of me and betray me Does Qin Yangming have a deep affection for you? Xiaoqian, you are my favorite daughter As long as you kill Qin Yangming and bring back Taixuan Scriptures I'll spare you you miserable bitch She's useless Put her in the water prison to die Nie Xiaoqian, how are you feeling? Last time you asked why I hated you so much I can tell you right now I used to have a sister She brought me up Taught and guided me to practice But you dared to turn into her appearance You don't deserve it at all You are talking about Fengxi Lingzun Yes, that's her I can kill you right now Come But you saved me once I'll let you go this time We don't owe each other anything any more You didn't owe me anything What are you doing? You released the soul-catching rope You're gonna die if Grandma knows it Stop it It's no use My true body is in command of Grandma There is no way to leave A han If you really want to help me find Ning Caichen in Human World Tell him to leave for Canglan Valley Bring back my true body, the five-color stone Then I'll be set free That man will do this for you? Doesn't he cherish his life? He will Okay Then I'll convey the message for you We don't owe each other A han Be careful Master, Xiaoqian is already gone You should think about what to do with your future life I heard that Zixiaomen is still there What about we go and have a look? Master, you are responsible to protect the human world How can you indulge in your personal relationship? You are too intense What are you thingking about? I am a hunter for spirits All evil spirits are my enemies So am I and I was a hunter before you before eight hundred years You are an evil spirit What did you say? When I was killing the evil and defending the world your grandfather was not yet born Master, he suspected me I can prove this, Fairy Master Fatty will never harm the innocent Evil spirits are good at lying You've been fooled Stop fighting, listen to me Stop, stop it Fatty, leave here now What's wrong with you? You're not kind-hearted at all Fighting and killing all day long You practice only to kill the innocent What are you doing? I tell you this, I'm no evil spirit You kill me, you pay with your life Pedantic I... This is called mercy If I fight and kill like you is there any difference from evil spirits? I'm talking to you There is absolutely no way to communicate with people like you Xiaoqian is nearly dying Where is she? She was incapacitated by her grandmother and locked in a water dungeon. Do you want to save her? How? It is dangerous there, and you will die Don't talk so much nonsense Just tell me how to save her Say something If you want to save Xiaoqian You must get her true body which is a five-color stone buried in the snake cave at the bottom of Canglan Valley Lord Fairy Master I want to ask you something There is absolutely no way to communicate with people like me Lord Fairy master Lord Fairy Master, please forgive my indiscretion I, I beg you to save Xiaoqian A real man will not kneel down easily Only to god and parents But now you dare to kneel to me for a mere woman Begging for someone you love What's the shame? Besides, if I can't even protect my beloved one how can you make great achievements? Setting to the spiritual realm I'm not completely sure if I can kill the snake spirit And there's no way to keep you safe To kill the snake spirit, I need to arrange an array Take care of yourself What are you waiting for? Let's go Fairy Master, how can we get there? This is the spiritual world? Here is the bottom of the Canglan Valley Canglan Valley is intersection connecting the human and spiritual worlds. Lanruo Temple is one of the weaknesses You go and take the Five-color stone, leave the monster to me The cave over there Why is it so dark? I'm about to go So many stones... Which one is Xiaoqian? Xiaoqian Xiaoqian Xiaoqian Answer me if you could hear What to do now? Xiaoqian If you really are treasure like everyone has said before I beg you Help me find out Xiaoqian's five-color stone Xiaoqian Xiaoqian By the way, Xiaoqian I have found your five-color stone My stone Master Why did you come? A han Sister, we meet again That's wonderful It turned out that you are Fengxi No A han I finally got it, Taixuan Scriptures Xiaoqian You bitch I am going to burn the heart out of you today Xiaoqian Monster, you satisfied? Master, go Bitches I'm gonna lock your souls Light the lamp with your spirit Enslave you for ever and ever Xiaoqian, you'll watch your beloved one die in front of you and the same for you too Die with that bitch Xiaoqian, are you alright? Caichen, it's all my fault I'm willing to die with you Another come for death Come on Sword array Grandma, your mission is completed Black mountain That's impressive Hope that you wouldn't suspect me You are awesome Desperately using the forbidden power of Zixiaomen Spririt-sealing Array Fortunately, I am fast enough Otherwise I would die Thank you, Fairy Master Thank you, Fairy Master Go Leave as soon as possible Are you hurt, Master? What's wrong, Master? Don't touch me, go It's dangerous, leave now Qin Yangming, no way for you to escape Fengxi, how poor and weak you are Are you still unconscious? Master, leave with your lover Be careful, Fatty Qin Yangming, you claim to protect human beings But this is how it ends I am not Qin Yangming I am Ning Caichen - Xiaoqian - Lord Black Mountain He didn't remember anything about his previous life Please, let us go He doesn't remember... Do you remember? Hand me the five-color stone And stay in the spiritual world with me forever I'll then let them go Xiaoqian, don't listen to him Fengxi, what you promised me at that time was finally done Xiaoqian Xiaoqian Xiaoqian, are you good? Black mountain You broke the seal Taixuan Scriptures And take place of him Today I swear to take revenge for him Kill demons for justice You will all die here today Master, Black Mountain's power is overwhelming He can only be destroyed by Taixuan Scriptures What should we do? You are true body of Jiuyang Only you can inspire the Taixuan Scriptures Urge it to destroy the enemy But then you have to again Leave us Don't Caichen, don't Taixuan scriptures Don't Caichen, don't Hold on, Fatty Master! You are finally fighting for human Xiaoqian, it's good to have known you No, Caichen, no Lord Spirit I would like to stay in the spiritual world to serve you forever Please let them go You all have to die today Master, hurry up Xiaoqian, I really wanted the time to pass a little more slowly Caichen, don't Caichen, don't Xiaoqian, I'm leaving Caichen, don't Caichen Xiaoqian Scholar Mayor He, how did you become a monk? That ain't right, scholar I became a monk when I was a child My Dharma name is Mengkong There's no Mayor He here Scholar The prefect has been waiting in town for a long time. Hope that you could go as soon as possible Amitabha Isn't this temple name written by the scholar? Caichen Is anyone there? Mr. Ning Fatty! Mr.Ning, I've been waiting for a long time Fight so hard What is it for? Xianling Island is about to collapse Fengxi, leave Leave now The spirit of god is collapsing Both worlds of man and spirit will collapse But where else can I go? Self-scatter your essence, into the origin of god Fengxi, no Fengxi The hole in the sky could be made up But how can you make up for love if there's a crack?