Transcript for Head Hands Heart (2010) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Someone needs to stop Clearway Law. Public shouldn't leave reviews for lawyers. HEAD - HANDS - HEART "Every pregnancy portends a miracle. " - Joseph Roth Those fake smiles of our actresses when they get a letter or invitation from some count or fuddy-duddy, a portly adulterer or sickly brewer! How real and materialistic! < Your deeply loyal Heinrich. > I... have we met before? Wili told me about you. Wili? I'm not sure if the Colonel ever said anything to me about you, but I now understand why you came. We have a common situation. I would say rather... our paths cross somewhere. I'm very sorry for what happened. I know how close you were to the Colonel. I felt it, and was even a bit jealous. Nor was my relationship with the Colonel ordinary. Extraordinary people make extraordinary ties. That energy in you. I could feel it immediately. I feel a special void. Maybe I didn't really know him, but his closeness was calming to me. I can't shake the feeling someone wanted the two of us to meet. None of what you think is real. Just accept the fact some things are beyond your understanding. A piece is yours, but you must give it back to me at the right moment. He knew... He wanted us to meet. I beg your pardon, I did not mean to startle you. What are you doing here? My name is Karel Vrana. Army. I want to talk to you in private. - I apologize again for my intrusion. - Okay, but I don't... I will explain everything... or as much as I can. You should be very careful- The Colonel's people are dangerous. Their drivel about a higher power, predestination, strange practices, that's what ultimately led to the Colonel's death. I told the police everything. I don't know what you are talking about. Understand... we're at war. For a year I've had my eye on activities surrounding Colonel Haukwitz. Since the assassination of the heir to the throne, they've been active. Within the High Command certain groups await a new monarch, one better suited to their vision. They want to liquidate existing structures, the old system of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and take things in a new direction. They have strong links to Germany. Their aim: to forge a new doctrine, based on stupid occult practices. Unfortunately, I have concluded Col. von Haukwitz was one of them. Even though... he probably was in a privileged position and was maybe only a bit odd. And what are you after, Mr. Vrana? - Me? - Yes, you. I am here to safeguard tradition and common sense. I want to protect us from the subversive elements that would break up the monarchy. Truly? I know you may not trust me, but believe me that I want the Colonel's body not to be subject to insane occult practices, not to serve the desires of madmen. If the Colonel voluntarily underwent interventions which cost his life, that was his choice, but his remains should rest in peace. It is a question of respect and upholding traditions. Fine. I agree. Find his remains, bring them to me for burial and I will co-operate with you. I must know what you said to Roth. I know the two of you have met. There is nothing of value to you which I told Lieutenant Roth. However my offer still stands. On that, we can shake hands. I have the means to get rid of him. War... ...is a place and time in which physical laws cease to apply. With the deaths of so many people the bonds fluctuate between corporeal bodies and accumulate the very unusual dark energy needed to transform the world. The Colonel-his body- will be the cornerstone of the transmutation- the agent- to let us to change the universe. He has passed the first stage- when live matter is converted into dead- in the next he will live again. It will be the Great Return. Everything will change at once. All boring constants will disappear: spring, dinner, marriage, the need to excrete, the post office, money. The world will gain a completely different hierarchy. Only crystal emotions will remain, which braided into columns will support the New Order. Until today, I felt like a moth- asleep, but now I have awaken. 30 years of waiting and hibernation. I seemed a rotting corpse. And now suddenly someone has let blood into my decomposing veins. But I am no longer a being. I am an agent. A chemical compound that enables an essential process. And that is why I have to be there. Not because some old geezer calls upon me... the last person who really knows what's going on. My step-sister has died. I'll have to go to Moravia. I need to look after my niece and the family farm. - Dear Klara... < Your Heinrich> It will pass. You'll see. I experienced it the same place as you. Here. I too was eighteen. I thought I would go crazy. I thought I would never come back here again. Taha mahura samuh? Taka puha malahid. Show us, please, Master, the breaking point. The centre of the magnetic field. The place of meltdown. Baghdad. What is this nonsense?! Do you keep any chickens here? For some reason I can't. It's okay. I understand. Everything was different than it seemed at the beginning. Nothing happened the way I expected. Nothing. We didn't even get there. Someone blew up the tracks. We got out the train with shrapnel all around us. Then firing, darkness and it was over. No energy there. Just confusion. Shit-stained, sweaty cattle in uniforms, confusion, shrapnel, and then darkness. It must have been horrible. It wasn't horrible. It was stupid- sweaty, dirty, idiotic, common, low. Without any meaning whatsoever. Let alone inner meaning. When they amputated it, they didn't even want to give it to me. The stupidity of the rules won over the power of the moment. No one gained from multiple deaths. Nobody could look those dead in the eye. But paper-pushing, ja! They counted, they passed out rations, cartridges, medicine, orders. Doltishness in its purest form. "Grandpa" was able to shit his senile diarrhea until there was nothing left other than shit. Mud and shit. They just change his diapers, he waves his hand at parades like some automaton, and through the diapers the shit flows over everything... I had to bribe some pathetic doctor not to throw my hand into a mass grave with dead cattle... or in the garbage. Money is the only thing that works in this cretinous machinery. The most pitiful pitifulness. You must rest and try to forget. It's not hard to forget the sorriest moments of one's life. What's difficult is to start something new. It won't let you. I have to do something now, after lying for months in shit and mud. What are you going to do? In the hospital I was thinking I need to change direction. I want to start a chicken farm... - You want... - No, better said, a rooster farm. Without hens it wouldn't work, hmm? ...to raise poultry? Sure, what's wrong with that? Nothing. I'm trying to understand. You want a farm? You want to raise chickens for meat and eggs? Well... that too, but not only. I want to raise mainly cocks. I was thinking about it in hospital. Just the idea gave me strength. I know it seems incomprehensible, but it has a meaning of its own. Trust me: A very deep inner meaning. How many cocks do you think can be in one pen... ...without them killing each other? Come here... Got it? And down below... And then my uncle, Ali Ibn Rashid, cut me up again into pieces and the entire family ate me. And they put my head on the table to watch them enjoy their food - while I told them funny stories. - So tell us one. Well... - Can you hear someone coming? - Rudi's keeping look-out. When I was serving in Bosnia, a local beauty entered the barracks, said she needed to talk to a doctor. Our doctor, a real pig, made himself immediately available: "How may I service you, Miss?" "Doctor, I am so terribly ashamed. Could we take a walk and... talk?" So they went out, and she said she was married without children, and suicidal because of it. The doctor asked about her husband then told her to disrobe so he could examine her, he'd certainly help her with her problem: Nothing to be afraid of! And so we drew lots as to who could cure her. I can't tell you who it was, but I can tell you 9 months later, she gave birth to a child. How it happened, I don't know! Did I tell you about bathing with my uncle in the Euphrates? He went under and when he emerged, on his head there was a... Look out! He's coming! - Your wish, sir? - Nothing, thank you. And let no one disturb me under any circumstances. what who It's a dog's life. Heinrich has lost his hand, his potency and his mind... And Vrana, from the same lack of self-confidence is impotent, too. But you put me into this. If I only had something to give me hope... What are you doing? Are you mad?! Get out! Leave! I blame myself. I wanted to look after you, to bridge the difficult moments in your life. I've only complicated it. Not at all. You've helped so much. You gave me courage. Without you I'd have never found it. It was the same for you. - But I found courage on my own. - But that's the same thing. What is it? It's nothing, Anna, I'm not feeling my best. Are you ill? Should I go for the doctor? - I'm fine. I'll be okay. - Are you sure? I'm sure. Don't worry. I'll write letters to friends in Prague. They'll help you set up. You see! You had no one in Prague. Times have changed. I'll let you go, but you must promise to write. Or course I will, I promise. I just need to get out of here. What are we going to do with that? Well... you wanted to kill them all. Sure, but enough is enough. There must be at least eighty there. We could cure them somehow. The army needs meat. They'd buy. But we can't manage it ourselves. So I'll find someone. I'll go ask in the village myself.