Transcript for Brocade Mouse Royal Cat Nine Deep Blood Wolf (2020) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Damn you demons and evil people. By the look of you, I guess you're the Master of the Tianji Cabinet. You walked here in the evening in such a mess, what is it that you want? Please forgive me for offending you at this late hour. My master has asked you to find an antidote for this poison. Or else the world will be haunted by demonic creatures. Lay out the formation. There are dog holes in the wall. Go quickly. Hurry up. Guard Zhan. Yeah. Look at that. Well. Guard Zhan. You see. Yes. The Tianji Cabinet is a secret sect of the Jianghu, acting in a weird and unpredictable way. This scratch changes from deep to shallow into fine. Is it really the work of a foreign beast? Guard Zhan. Yes. I found a seal in the front. I don't know if it has anything to do with the case. Wei... Wu... My Lord. My lord. The Emperor... The emperor has asked you to enter the palace. What? Go to the palace? The emperor wants me to buy onions. Did you hear that right? Yes. Go to the palace. Go to the palace. It scared the hell out of me. Gong Sun Ce. Just speak clearly next time. Last time that case, Lord Bao should not rush out to step on the fuse. The explosives not only didn't go out, but also hurt his own ears. That's right. All day long he was yelling about petitioning for the people, and now, he can't even hear his voice. Asshole. Wang Chao, Mahan. You say that I am not clear in my judgments, and you dare to slander my reputation. Hum. Mr. Bao. You're back. Mr. Bao. Yesterday's beast murder case, the victims were all from Tianji Cabinet. As far as I can see, the dead are covered with scratches, as if they were wounded by wild animals. But after careful examination, I found that the wounds were very flat, as if they were caused by a sharp weapon. Guard Zhan. Louder. Mr. Bao. Yesterday's beast murder case, the victims were all from Tianji Cabinet. And their bodies were covered with scratches, as if they had been wounded by sharp objects. Guard Zhan. Clear analysis. This case is in your hands. Water and Land puja will be held soon. There must be no chaos. Yes. I'm coming, Wu. Here we go, brother. It's all here. It's coming. Brother, you've sent so many mouse letters, is there something you want from your brothers? I'm okay. It was the Master of the Tianji Cabinet who was killed, just last night. Dead? That's not right. The Tianji Cabinet knows everything about the world. The rule of the jianghu is not to make enemies of them So Who did it? Yeah. The Master of the Tianji Cabinet once helped me. I had promised to do three things for her. And now there is one thing that has not been fulfilled. I'll help her get revenge and settle this debt. No problem. I'm with you. Brother don't worry, I'll help you. Hmm. But where do we have to start? Yeah. Find out who uses this seal. The guy who didn't know any better seemed to be looking into it, which saved us a lot of work. Royal cat. This black powder is not a herb, nor is it a stone powder. I've been working with medicinal herbs for half my life, but I've never seen this. Gee-up. Wu. Who are you? The fifth master of the Xian Kong island, Bai Yutang. Are you a stupid cat investigating the Tianji Pavilion case? The evidence of this case will be mine. Rampant little thief. Honestly, do you have anything to do with the Tianji Cabinet case? So what's it to you? You fucking rat, you dare to kick me. You've got some skills. Yes. Stop. Hey. Do you want it? Come and get it. Both of these guys are good at kung fu. Yeah. Look over there. They're fighting. Come on. Come and get it. You stupid cat can't get it, can you? Ah. Hello. Come after me. A bunch of losers This kind of kung fu, and still dare to come to the competition. Sister. When will I find my soulmate? Sister. Fate is sometimes far away. Far away? Yeah. Could there be a man falling from the sky? Not handsome enough, what else? So handsome. So handsome. You're blind. Are you saying he's better looking than me? Go away. Brother Zhanzhao. Are you here for the match? Miss Ding. I have official business to attend to, so I'm sorry. Do you want to go there? Win me first. Sister. Brother Zhanzhao. You won me. I... Brother Zhanzhao. Sister. Sister. Brother Zhanzhao. Miss Ding. Much offense. Excuse me. Mr. Zhan. Mr. Zhan. You've dropped your stuff. Thanks I really didn't think that this Miss Ding would go blind at such a young age. There's a gentleman like me standing here, but she actually looks at that stupid cat. You. Get out. Black powder. Sister. Is he nice? Very nice. How do you know he has good kidneys? I feel it. I feel it. Pang Tai Shi. Don't you dare talk nonsense. You... you're talking nonsense. You're outrageous. You're full of shit. The emperor. Execute the nine clans. I kill you. Miss Calm down. Now Lord Bao's ears are not very good, so you should not bother with him. Xiao Dezi. I'm here. You write down what I said to Master Bao, so that there won't be another misunderstanding. Yes, sir. In a few days it will be the Water Land Puja, and I want to make some changes to get closer to the people, and I wonder what good suggestions the two secretaries have. Your Majesty. I have an idea that I don't know if it's appropriate. Please go ahead, Tai Shi. I suggest that you, Your Majesty, lead the civil and military officials to drink the water of Bianhe River with the people in the puja. The King and the people drink together to show my pro-people heart. Nice. Bao Zheng. What do you think? This is a very good method. I second the motion. Bao Zheng. Is this sun coming out of the west? I can't believe you agreed to this. You're the one who's tired of living. I've got a long life. Miss Ding. I'm begging you to stop following me, okay? Zhanzhao did not intend to intrude into the Ding House, I did not know that you was competing in a marriage. If it weren't for that Bai Yu Tang, you would have found the man of your choice. I don't care. You're the one who defeated me, and you're my future husband. Tell me, when will we get married? I entered the Ding house by mistake, but I didn't mean to. If the you really wants to get married, you can have another match. Another match? OK. I'll do it again if you come. I... It's okay to say no. Then I will now go to the city to spread the word that the Kaifeng House Zhan Zhao, Mr. Zhan. Went to the Ding House match, won the Ding Yuehua and promised to marry her. But now he met another girl and changed his mind, abandoned me and betrayed my trust, always changing his words and no faith. All right, Miss Ding, stop it. All right, you have my word.. Did you say yes to me? I... Oh my goodness. Stupid cat. You really don't know how to love. Miss Ding, he doesn't want you, there's me, I don't mind. You white rat! You dare to break into the Kaifeng House! You get down here. You get up here. Get your ass down here. You get up here. See if you come down. The cat is in a hurry to jump off the wall. I won't come down. What's going on? Baiyutang. What the hell do you want? I'm investigating the case. To find out the real culprit behind the Blood Wolf case and get justice for the Tianji Cabinet. You check yours. I'll check mine. What do you mean by pestering me? It doesn't mean anything. Who let you to call yourself a royal cat? How can we five rats still get along in the jianghu? So I have nothing to do, so I came to tease cat, to take the piss out of you. I… Stinky rat. You dare to molest my husband! You, get down here! I'll fight you alone. Guard Zhan. Guard Zhan. Tell us what you found out. We found the owner of the seal. This is the private seal used by Shanzhuang at the city port. And the owner of Sunjang was Lu Youxin, the great kind man. Thanks a lot, stupid cat. Good. Brother Zhanzhao. Lord Zhan. Sister. How come you can't feel me? Lord Xiao. My sister is always giving me trouble. I'll go first. The cat catching the mouse is a law that has been in place since the beginning of time. Do you understand? Knock it off. Lu Youxin. He is Lu Youxin. Right. The house door was unlocked. There were no signs of a struggle in the house again. It seems that the murderer and Lu Youxin were acquaintances. This wound should have been scratched after his death. This suggests that the killer was trying to destroy some kind of evidence. Just so you know, white rat. And where is the killer now? I'll tell you what. This door was unlocked and the windows and doors inside the house were intact, which means there must be a secret room inside this house What about the direction? From the blood trail of Lu Youxin's body being dragged, it's easy to see that the approximate orientation of this chamber would be at... That should be it. The killer, who was going to drag the body that way, our arrival disrupted his plans. In an emergency he dragged the body backwards to cover it up, thus cutting his arm. The golden cicada escapes by crafty scheme. So The direction of the secret room should be in… Is that right there? You're lucky to have guessed what I meant. I told you so. Zhanzhao. Brother Zhanzhao. Miss Ding. Miss Ding, I'm working on a case. Lu Youxin is dead. You can't even see Lu Youxin's face from that position. How did you know it was him? I was just... What do you mean, stinky mouse? This is Lu Youxin's study, if he didn't die, would there be someone else? That's right. Sorry about that, Mr. Xiao. Lord Xiao, are you hurt? I'm fine. Miss Ding, it's more dangerous here. Either you go back first, right? Brother Zhanzhao, are you concerned about me? I'm worried about your personal safety. Why don't you go back first? You guys take your time, I'll go first. You wait. I'll be right back. Brother Zhanzhao, I'm going too. Sister, it's dangerous inside, I will protect you. Brother. It must be because there's an ulterior motive for the little secret. It's okay, don't be afraid. That's weird. What's so weird, white mouse? Why should I tell you if I'm called a white rat? Brother Zhanzhao. It's the wolf. Don't be afraid. Stay behind me. What the hell is that? Let's see. Get out and let it go, get help. Be careful, brother. Go. Fifth Brother is in trouble. Go. Go. Mr. Zhan, this is Xiao Li. Mr. Xiao, so it's you. Stupid cat, you're blind. Xiao brother and wolf you can not tell. No bullshit, quick alert. Are you okay, brother? Yes. You dare to touch my man, you don't even know what I'm capable of. Brother. Brother. Are you all right, brother? Mr. Xiao. Are you sure you're okay? It's okay. Brother. You're bleeding. Mr. Bao Yesterday's beast murder case, the victims were all from Tianji Cabinet. As far as I could see, the dead body was covered with scratches, as if they had been wounded by wild animals. But upon my closer examination, I found that the wounds were very flat, as if they were caused by a sharp instrument. The killers of the Tianji Cabinet murders are all here. They were obviously human, so why did we see wolves that day? I took a little black powder from you that day. It was stolen. That doesn't even matter. My second brother has investigated the source of that black powder. It's the snake venom of the Nine-Quartered King Snake. It's not fatal, but it can cause hallucinations. Hallucinations? So that's it. That's the secret they're trying to hide. This tattoo and everything in the chamber proves that they are the Skywolf clan. That Lu Youxin is also a member of the Skywolf clan. Mr. Bao. The murderer of the Tianji Cabinet case has been found out, and it is the Skywolf Clan. Guard Zhan. What did you say? He said that the killer was the Skywolves. Wolves and pigs? How do you run the case? So absurd. What face do I have to explain to the emperor and the people? My Lord. Not wolves and pigs. It's the Skywolves. It's the Skywolf Clan. Zhanzhao, come up, come up and say. Yes. Mr. Bao Ever since the court sent troops to purge the Skywolf clan for rebellion, they have been in hiding for many years. This time they have reappeared in the capital, they must have a plan. Then, according to Guard Zhan, it means... They've come back to take revenge on the court. Zhanzhao. What do you think? If Their goal is the imperial court, why do they want to bloodbath the Tianji Cabinet? I've checked it out. The steel claws on this wolf man's hands exactly match the wounds on the victim at the crime scene in Tianji Cabinet. And Lu Youxin's seal was also at the Tianji Cabinet crime scene. It means that Lu Youxin must have something to do with this case. When we investigated Lu Youxin's house, he had already been silenced. This means that someone was behind this and prevented us from investigating. And is there anyone to suspect? Xiao Li. Who? Xiao Li. Daring. Xiao Li was an official of the court and always did his duty. Suspect him? Do you have proof? There is no conclusive evidence yet. But according to my speculation, they know that the seal fell into the hands of us, and sooner or later they will investigate Lu Youxin, so they will definitely kill to silence him. And that day at the Ding House, it was Xiao Li who took Lu Youxin's seal and gave it to me. The contents of the seal were seen only by him. From the time he got the seal to the time we investigated Lu's house, he had all this time to tip off and kill people. The most important thing is that dead. When Xiao Li arrived at Lu's house, he even did not look at the deceased clearly in that case, and said out of the blue: Lu Youxin is dead， Lu Youxin is dead. It is clear that he already knew that the deceased is Lu Youxin. This case is very involved and not trivial. Since there are clues, Zhanzhao, this case will be fully handed over to you to investigate. Remember, nothing can go wrong. Yes. Brother Zhanzhao. Are you scared silly? How can you doubt my brother? Who saved us that day at the risk of his life? Miss Ding. Xiao Li's kung fu is beneath both me and the white mouse. In the white mist, why did we all suffer repeated attacks? And yet he was able to come to our rescue many times. He was trying to get at us. What caused me the most suspicion was that the wound on his body was not scratched by a wolf's claw, but by a sword wound. It was my sword. Then you can't assume that my brother is one of the wolves just because he received a sword wound. Miss Ding is right. You can't just guess like that and say that Miss Ding's brother, is the murderer. The case should be investigated with evidence. The case is the process of pulling out the threads and stringing together the clues. Speculation is just a way to get to the truth faster. Miss Ding. If you believe me, do not let Xiao Li get suspicious. If he is innocent, I will certainly give him justice. Miss Ding, I'm on your side. You'll be my witness when the time comes. When I find out the real murderer in this case, the name of the imperial cat Zhanzhao will be changed to stupid cat, unable to distinguish between right and wrong. Guard Zhan. Guard Zhan. Mr. Xiao is awake. My brother is awake. My brother. Mr. Xiao. You're here. Brother. Are you okay with your injuries? Not a problem. It's just a little scary now that I think about it. I've never seen anything so strange. It was white smoke and mist, and what I clearly saw, was a werewolf coming at me. But why, I received a sword wound? Who knows which one of you stabbed the wrong person? Mr. Xiao, That day, there was a lot of fog, I did not distinguish between friend and foe, and hurt Lord Xiao by mistake, I am really sorry. Who can see clearly at a critical moment? Mr. Zhan, you don't have to blame yourself. It's okay，brother, you take care of your injuries first. I'll get you the best doctor in town. Forget it. I've sort of come back from the dead and picked up a life. But Mr. Xiao, that blood wolf thing now I have a clue. When I was in Lu Youxin's secret room, I found that there seemed to be something else at the end of that room, so I was going to take someone to check it out. Mr. Zhan, are you still going to that dangerous place? The end of the chamber must be related to the Blood Wolf case. If I don't step up my investigation, the culprit will learn about it and I'm afraid they'll go to destroy the clues. In that case, then, Mr. Zhan, you should go and investigate the clues so that they are not lost. Then you rest in peace. Brother, you take care of your injuries. Brother. Brother. Didn't you say you were going to the secret room of the Lu House? You'll believe whatever the stupid cat says. So, why don't you believe him when he says he doesn't love you? It's impossible to believe this one. You don't talk nonsense. You guys stop arguing. I deliberately mentioned the secret room of the Lu House to see his reaction. The human expression does not deceive itself. But I had a vague feeling that he was a little weird. Are you still suspicious of my brother? He was wounded in the chamber, and it makes sense that he would have palpitations at the mention of the chamber. But you should know that being afraid and being nervous are two different things. Xiao Li was also in charge of the city defense, which was his job. But I got the feeling that he didn't seem to want me to keep looking into it. White rat. Didn't you always want to compare yourself to me? Say two words. I'll tell you what. Do you remember what we saw in the autopsy room? Are you talking about the tattoos on the arms of those werewolves? What are you talking about? Every one of the Skywolf clan has a tattoo on his arm. If Xiao Li also has this tattoo on his arm, then it would confirm that my suspicions are correct. Then you don't have to guess on this one. My brother and I grew up together, and he doesn't have any tattoos on his arms. His arm is whiter than my arm. That's just you're very dark, right? You're the one who's black. Your whole family is black. You're the black mouse. Don't argue. Black or not black... Ah no. Whether there is one or not is obvious at a glance. Whether there is one or not is obvious at a glance. My brother has always done his duty and comes to guard the city room every day at this hour. Brother Zhanzhao. I'll have my own way in a minute. I'll let you drop this suspicion of my righteous brother. Checking the case is not to let go of any clues. Water and Land puja deployment map, Ma Zhuang village, the map of Wu Qing village, in Mr. Xiao's deployment map, how is not it? I think this Wuqing village, perennial rain disaster, is equal to a ruined village, and the location is remote, no one comes, should not be unusual. Mr. Xiao. What brings you here? Go inside. Go. Sister. Why are you here? I knew you wouldn't be at home resting properly, I caught you. You have not yet recovered from your injuries, I have specially boiled tonic for you and brought it to you. You still care about me the most. Then I'll go and serve it to you. Hmm. Water and land puja will be held soon, all around must be closely guarded, there must not be a single mistake. Get on it quickly. Yes. Mr. Xiao, You are not yet recovered from your serious injuries, why don't you know how to rest and rest? I'm fine. You get on it quickly. Yes. Brother. Is everything all right, brother? Quickly take it. I'll check it out for you. No, right? No. Righteous sister. What's not? No what? I'll show you if there's any burns. I'll check this side. Nothing, right? No. I'm not hurt, sister. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Brother. Why don't you go and change your clothes first? Okay. Go go go. See what I mean? See clearly? I told you there's no tattoo on my brother. That's weird. This Xiao Li is seriously wounded, but he is doing his duty, so he is a good officer. Yeah, I said my brother is fine. Brother Zhanzhao. If you can come up with half the strength to investigate the case to chase me, I am willing to die even if it is. Why do you always put yourself in the picture? None of your business. This only proves that Xiao Li is not a member of the Wolf Clan But Xiao Li's suspicions can't be ruled out yet Zhan Zhao You haven't given up yet? White rat What Now That's funny. You're begging me now? Let's go. Go Wu How's the case going? Yes After all, Zhan Zhao is a member of the government and is too concerned about the rules of the court It's no match for the methods used by those of us who are not in office. Brother What are you going to do next? Naturally, I'm going to use my magic pill that works every time! Brother, you can't be Drugging It's not that difficult The key is who is responsible for the seduction Among our team In terms of looks it's the brother, I can reluctantly agree to dress up as a woman I'm only 28 years old Disgusting What are you thinking? This medicine is not for that What are you two playing at? This ecstasy is exactly the same as the one I have Brother, please listen to what Wu has to say This medicine can make a person tell the truth if they smell it. Great Let adversity be good Making the Impossible Possible It's still up to me After the event I'll have to take the title of "Royal Cat" from you What's he doing? He's not going to poison my brother, is he? Do it, you'll find out later. This drug is called "Soul Powder" and is tasteless. Feverish after inhalation Turned into a trance Until now it has worked every time Until now it has worked every time Brother Brother, brother, brother, what's wrong with you, brother? Brother, Brother, Brother, What's wrong with you, Brother? You're not going to poison anyone with this medicine, are you? No, it won't. Ok From now on, be honest. Something very serious Don't say a word or I'll beat you up Yes What is your real identity Xiao Li, City Watch Officer of Kaifeng What does the Wolf Clan have to do with you? No The case of the Bloody Wolves of the Tianji Cabinet may have something to do with you No You killed Lu Youxin No Have you done anything wrong to hide from the government? Yes What is it Three years ago, I was on patrol in the middle of the night and peed in the moat because I had to. The end of that secret room in the Lu House Are there secrets of the Wolf Clan? Brother Brother That's a bit of a cheat, isn't it? Are you sure this medicine works? Of course it does That's fine Excellent Brother Sir Sir Sir It seems that this medicine is very powerful So, do you think it'll work? It's working even if it doesn't. This medicine doesn't seem right I don't think it's that simple You've figured it out My brother gave me that medicine. Vertigo medication What does it mean? It's a game again This is indeed a game The medicine didn't work Instead he continues to act That means he must have had a problem And he couldn't answer when I asked him He just pretended to faint That's right. But the idea was mine So I win this time Who says you win? Do you have proof? I'm a witness I didn't see it. I just looked at his books Xiao Li traded six tons of grain and hay with Shanzhuang every week This is far more than the number of men he needs to supply And the last day was the day Lu Youxin died It seems there must be something wrong with that place Thank you for the clue So where are you going? I'm going to get the game back Zhanzhao, wait for me Don't show off I'd like to see you get this one back Brother, wait for me Go Zhanzhao Wait for me Brother Can you make a less ritualistic appearance? It's scary. Okay, okay, okay, okay. A Mysterious Woman Enters the Lu House It seems that I may not lose. Brother Where are you going? Stinky Mouse How can you be faster than us? Of course Stupid cat Looks like I've won again I never thought I'd get along with you You and I are not related All Thanks to Xiao Li What Stinky Mouse Don't steal a man from me Who wants to steal this stupid cat from you? I guess there's something in there for you. Go, go in. - Brother. - Brother. Brother, this is not a female ghost, is it? Boss Liuyin has failed you Not only did I expose my identity, but I also put your life at risk. I'm coming to see you Wait Who are you Girl If you die so unaccountably What a waste of Mr. Lu's kindness to you! Who the hell are you? This is Zhan Zhao who is the lord of the Kaifeng This Commoners Greetings to Lord Zhan I am Liu Yin Miss Liu The killer has not yet been found. If you really want to bring justice to Mr. Lu Why don't you tell me everything you know On the Day I have been ordered by my master to bring a mysterious poison to the Master of the Tianji Cabinet and hope to find the antidote But I didn't expect to encounter a blood wolf Fortunately There's a dog hole in the Tianji Cabinet I Was able to escape but The master died Lu Youxin is a member of the Wolf Clan Death is deserved Although my master is a Wolf His only enemy is the Emperor He didn't want his people to kill the innocent He sensed that the Wolves were secretly developing a poisonous water but I don't know what it's all about And can't stop it Only one step ahead Search for the antidote to the poison What Kind of Poison Who You've been hit by a dart I'm ok I don't want to live anyway. Oh no This dart is poisonous Miss Liu Miss Liu Hold on The Wolf Clan is in the upper Bian river Miss Liu Miss Liu In the upper Bian river... Wuqing Village No wonder On the armorial map I don't see any fortifications here I thought it was a deserted village. The Wolf Clan must be in the village of Wuqing That's right. Just now Miss Liu said that this poison must be related to the stratagy of the Wolf Clan And Xiao Li spared no expense To conceal the hiding place of the Wolf Clan And his daily trade in provisions with the good bank was greater than the number of his troops All these signs indicate that Xiao Li and the Wolf Clan are definitely related But trying to destroy the Wolf Clan we have one more important thing to do Why are you suddenly interested in the records of the village of Wuqing Nothing sir I just wanted to ask Why is the village of Wuqing the only one in the capital fortified This village has been abandoned for a long time The Emperor promoted hard work, frugality and love for his people And indeed there was no need to waste military and financial resources on a deserted village If it was thrifty, then why did you need so much military food? As far as I know You have purchased far more food than your army needs! There is a long famine in other cities The purchase of military rations is only a charity to be given out This can be traced There are so many other cities, and you are so sophomoric If I may say It's like you're harbouring criminals, Lord Shaw. A group of bandits raised on surplus army rations and hidden in a deserted village That could be done without knowing If you want to condemn me, you'll have plenty to say. If you don't believe me I'm going with you to the village of Wuqing You'll know it when you see it Yes, please. This is it. You see, it's been abandoned for a long time. Who are you? Dare to come here The Kaifeng Office is working And who are you? Kaifeng Office Boss, they're not poisoned. Brother, I'm here to help you. Of course it's not poisoned The black hallucinogenic powder you use has no effect on the horsetail I found. The black powder you found at the crime scene was made from the venom of the Nine-Bent King Snake After my research I found a plant called La Liao Cao that can cure the hallucinations caused by this poison One for each of these purses will be safe from the illusions of these bad guys Kill Brother Lord Xiao Brother Lord Xiao Lord Xiao Brother, you hold on Hang in there, brother. I'll take you to the doctor. So I, Xiao, in this life I'm pure Mr. Xiao Sorry I was wrong to blame you Lord Xiao Brother Lord Xiao Brother Wake up, brother Brother Brother Brother Lord Xiao Wei Wu Lord Bao Zhan Zhao What are you doing? Sir The death of Lord Xiao was due entirely to an error in judgment on my part that led to his death Please convict Zhan Zhao Emergency Xiao Chengshou Died for You And you didn't mean to stab him with that sword He wouldn't have died if I hadn't disobeyed the orders and asked him to accompany me to Wuqing Village to confront If I am not judged I cannot live my life in peace This Officer I am ashamed to do it again You want me How to convict you Then I will confess my guilt to the Emperor No When it comes to the Emperor, there is no turning back Stupid cat You don't have to be an officer But I must have your name royal cat come out and fight with me Or else I will always be a step behind you I don't want to be an officer Naturally, it doesn't deserve the name royal Cat You win No I'm going to fight you fair and square Come out and fight with me After the match I don't care if you go to the Emperor Excuse me. Excuse me. Lord Bao Why didn't they do it? It It's the battle of the masters Use their eyes as swords Seemingly unmoved but actually a 300-round battle Stinky Rat be careful Don't hurt my Zhanzhao Why don't you do it? Do it! Why didn't you fight back? I admit defeat It's a fair fight Don't fight Sir, sir Is it all right? Are you all right, sir? Gongsun Ce Keep your voice down, I can hear you Sir Are you all right? Yes, I'm fine. Sir, Your ears are getting better! It's true! I've got this ear The adult's ear is fine You two stop fighting Guard Zhan About You I cannot handle this officer sir In that case I will enter the palace and invite Emperor's order is here Guard Zhan What the hell is going on? Emperor Xiao Chengshou is loyal Willing to die to show my own heart to Kill the Wolf Clan for the Emperor However, Zhan Zhao is very stubborn and conceited He was afraid of being robbed of his credit, so he took advantage of the confusion to kill Xiao Chengshou This is not true What the guard Zhan did Just to find out what happened Xiao Chengshou's Death was Just an accident Guard Zhan what is the crime I have heard The guard Zhan had repeatedly tested Xiao Chengshou on Also used unusual methods and later even killed him which shows the viciousness of his intentions on that day As witnessed by all who were present Even the sister of Xiao Chengshou also said that the incident was accidental Accidental If Accidental What did Zhan Zhao come to ask for? The Master You are the one who is slandering without evidence you you Okay, okay You guys stop fighting Zhanzhao What else do you have to say? It was an error of judgment on my part I caused the death of Xiao Chengshou I am... Willing to accept a penalty The most important thing at the moment is the water and land puja Now that the remnants of the Wolf Clan have been exterminated This way Then put Zhan Zhao in the Kaifeng House prison first Waiting for the end of the Water and Land Puja Brother Fourth Fifth Go Let's go You cannot leave Now that Zhan Zhao is behind bars for being wronged And so you go Who will help him? Miss Ding Please don't give us a hard time We really have no choice That Mrs. Pang made things difficult at every turn If we don't leave We'll have to go to the prison with Zhanzhao too But if you don't save him He's really screwed Miss Ding, do you understand or not? Now Zhan Zhao is being punished There is no longer a name for the Royal Cat I have achieved my goal Why bother to save him? Brothers Let's go and ask Lord Bao for his resignation Let's go Don't you go! Don't go You won't help, will you? Fine, I'll save him myself. Guard Zhan Are you sure you don't want a bite? Yes, Guard Zhan Have some Come What a stubborn man Two brothers Can you make an accommodation? Let me go to see Zhanzhao If you can take him away Hurry up Ok Come with me Miss Ding Don't waste your time I don't blame you for what happened to my brother It won't help if you stay here Miss Ding You go I, Zhan, have solved many cases I have never harmed anyone's life Stay here is the last place I'll ever be I'll carry you away even if I have to today Go Go You go Let's go. Take you somewhere. You see Xiao Li has disappeared Where is my brother's body? Fraudulent corpse Fraudulent corpse What a fraudulent corpse Brother, he went I see What's that, brother? Where is my brother's body? Your brother is not dead The day Xiao Li died to prove his innocence and you were caught immediately after So I staged a play together The purpose was to lure the snake out of the hole with Bai Yu Tang The purpose was to lure the snake out of the hole I'm glad Lord Bao is so clever. If not, how will Xiao Li be able to escape with peace of mind? What a way to lure a snake out of a hole It seems that now if we find Xiao Li, everything will be clear. What do you mean brother? My brother is not dead yes then So where are we going to find him? This I guess the white mice had an arrangement I've put a Qie Li Yin on Xiao Li A man's stain will leave a mark for a thousand miles This one I admire You two don't fight anymore yes The mouse and the cat working together will be invincible! Mr. Bao I heard that you judge people by day and ghosts by night So you are the Emperor's subject after all or A minister of the gods! Where did the Master get this nonsense from? I'm a mere mortal not that capable I'd like to hear more from Lord Bao what is the hell of the underworld like? If the Master is curious you can go down and see for yourself I'm a coward I'd rather have Lord Bao tell me after you have seen it Emperor's order is here The Emperor's Decree The Emperor says God's Blessings The Emperor's Grace King and the people of the various branches drink together from the Bian River King and the people of the various branches drink together from the Bian River over Thanks my king Lord Xiao Show your true face! Brother So you're really from the Wolf Clan So what if you are Since you are in a hurry to come and die then don't blame me for being unkind to you Stop You won't make it. Stop? Joke Kill Oh no! The river has been poisoned You must split up and stop the water and land puja Okay, let's go. Go It's time The King and the subjects drinking water from the Bian River Don't drink it, don't drink it, it's poisonous Don't Drink No The water is poisoned. Don't drink it. Protect the Emperor, protect the Emperor, have assassins. Don't drink. The water is poisoned. The water is poisoned. Don't drink it. Don't drink it. Don't drink River water is poisonous The water is poisonous. Don't drink it. This water Emperor, the river water is poisonous and cannot be drunk Xiao Li, let Miss Ding go! She is your sister So what Now that the time has passed The Great Plan of the Wolf Clan has been accomplished Let Me Go Don't even think about it. Wait ok If you let Miss Ding go I can let you go Zhanzhao, don't mind me Must hang the Wolves Miss Ding A little something Your Excellent Poison Enjoy yourself yuehua You must hold on. Hold on. Can you promise me one thing? Yes As long as you're well I can promise you anything Can you marry me? Yes When you're healed I will marry you I exchange my sword with you as proof Stupid Cat She doesn't die that easily Just obey him Miss Ding yuehua This is how it happened It's a good thing the Emperor didn't drink that bowl of water Emperor today the wolves have been destroyed their chiefs Xiao Li has also been brought to justice Thanks to Guard Zhan And the Five Rats The Song Dynasty is full of talent I am very pleased 1,000 taels of silver to Zhan Zhao Promoted to Second Grade Guard with Sword Five rats are credited with protecting me appointing as a fourth-ranking guard with a sword to follow Lord Bao to protect our country Thanks my Emperor Where is Bai Yu Tang? Why doesn't he come to see me? He's really got a lot of nerve This this this Bai Yu Tang is Sick Very Sick Can't even get out of bed Can't keep his eyes open Can't breathe He's sick Yes, yes, yes Pity Pity yuehua Look Over There This sword is returned to you What's wrong yuehua? You're all mine now What do I need this sword for? If you don't want it, give it to me Nice try Go, I'll wait for you here. Ok I'll be right there then. Fine nice It's not stolen, is it? Bought Why not go to the palace to see the emperor I don't want to go, no rules how about Stay This is not the place for me OK This is really not the right place for you to stay Because you're used to being loose But as long as you want to come back My door is always open to you That's Nature Waiting for your wedding day I'll be back OK Then it's a deal Xiao Li is useless The job is not done Instead, let Zhan Zhao and the others pick up the slack And collected the five people from the trapped island miss In this way To be or not to be Not necessary Let them have their fun for a couple of days How's that going? It's almost done Fake Bao is in place The real one Fell off a cliff after being struck by three swords Probably not going to survive That's good It was not in vain that I sacrificed a great general for more than 20 years so Our plan No Hindrance Proceed as usual This time the water and land puja was lost though But still it is not too late Yes Call to Order