Transcript for Nude on the Moon (1961) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (light electronic music) (eerie music) ♪ I'm mooning over you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ With a sad and broken heart ♪ ♪ I'm mooning over you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ For soon, the time will come to part ♪ ♪ I'm crying over you, my little angel ♪ ♪ Who lives high in the sky ♪ ♪ I'm crying over you, my little angel ♪ ♪ For back to Earth I soon must fly ♪ ♪ I lost my love to a moon doll ♪ ♪ Who dances upon a star ♪ ♪ I lost my love to a moon doll ♪ ♪ And my heart still bears a burning scar ♪ ♪ I long for you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ A nymph in the pale moonlight ♪ ♪ I pine for you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ For it's you who makes the moon so bright ♪ ♪ For it's you who makes the moon ♪ ♪ So bright ♪ (explosions booming) ("Moon Doll" by Ralph Young) (lighthearted orchestral music) (phone ringing) - [Jeff] Professor! - What are you so excited about, Jeff? - [Jeff] I'll tell you when I get there, Professor. I didn't want you to leave before I got back. I have the most wonderful news. - But what's it all about? - I'll be there in about five minutes, just wait. That's all, just wait, I'm leaving right now. - Crazy kid. - Professor, when Dr. Huntley gets back, would you be sure he gets the messages on his desk? - All right, Cathy. - Good. - He'll be here any minute now. - Oh, he's coming back tonight? - Yes. - Well maybe I'd better stay. - He was pretty excited when he called me over the phone a few minutes ago. - I'd better stay, then. - No, you run along, it's after five. - But if it's important, he might need me here. - Now Cathy, you've been spending entirely too much extra time here. - There's always something to do. - And if there isn't? You always manage to find something to do. - But... - Now Cathy, I may be just an old meddler, but I'd say it's pretty obvious that your interest in your job is a little extraordinary. - [Cathy] I don't understand. - When an attractive girl like you spends several hours retyping the same letters every night, just because the boss stays late, I'd say it's conclusive evidence that she's interested in him. - Oh no, Professor, my typing needs brushing up. - I've never known a better typist. Does he know how you feel? - He's so involved with his project, and Mary Foster. He doesn't know I exist. - Mary and Jeff were childhood friends. - Childhood friends? - Jeff is completely absorbed in his work. That's good, too. He's one of the brightest young rocket scientists in the country. - Did he ever mention me? - Hmm? - I mean, you'd... - For the five years I've been associated with him, all I've ever heard him talk about is rocket propellants, the laws of gravity. - [Cathy] Oh. - If he weren't so conscientious and dedicated, there wouldn't be this laboratory. And there wouldn't be that typewriter in the outer office. - [Cathy] If only he didn't work so hard. - Maybe you can persuade him. I think I hear him coming. - Oh. (romantic music) - Professor, it's the greatest thing that ever happened. - Calm down, Jeff, what's it all about? - (laughs) I couldn't be happier, and you will be too, when you hear the news. - Government appropriation come through? Are they going to finance the project? - We don't have to wait for them, Professor. We're going ahead with it on our own, full steam ahead. - A rocket to the moon. But it'll take millions. - And that's what we've got, look at this. - Yes? - It's not that I'd been hoping he'd die or anything like that. But he had to sooner or later. - Will you make sense, man, who died? - Uncle Ted, he was 93. He made a fortune in the fur business, and left it all to me. - All? Enough to build a rocket? - And go to the moon. - That's a lot of money, boy. - Sure is, and we're gonna start spending it. - But Jeff, this money, how much did you say? - Three million dollars, after taxes. - This money represents a good deal of security for you. Why not give the project some more time? Let the government finance it, they said they would. - But money is only good when you're doing something good with it. - You could retire, never have to worry about money again. You could settle down and have a family. You ever thought of that? - (laughs) Marriage, me? No, sir. Now we can be the very first. The first to make it to the moon. I know we can do it, we've worked so hard. On our formulas, and on the fuel. It'll work, we'll make it work. - But I never planned to go along. I'm too old, this was someone young, like yourself. - You've worked just as hard as I have. You've earned the right to be the first. - Have you ever thought about the dangers involved? Maybe I'm more practical. - Isn't it worth the chance? All our experiments have been successful. - But they were on an experimental level. Models, theories on paper. - [Jeff] Don't you have confidence in our ability? - Well yes, but- - [Jeff] So now we have the chance to realize our plans. And in six months- - You feel we could ready the project in six months? - I know we could. Means a lot of hard work, long hours, and lots of black coffee. But can you imagine it? We're going to have a chance to prove our formula, and fuel, and rocket construction. - Six months! - Right, you game? - How can we go wrong? You have the spirit, the energy. - And you have the patience and the knowledge. - Six months. - Here are you messages, Dr. Huntley. - The devil with the messages, we're going to the moon. - But Dr. Huntley. - We're going to the moon! Look. Cathy, call Mary Foster and tell her we're going to celebrate. What's the matter, did I say something wrong? Six months and we'll be on our way. (soft sultry music) (liquid bubbling) (electricity whining) (liquid bubbling) - Well, we're pretty much on schedule, Jeff. - Fine, fine. Any complications? - No, the final installation of the electrical system is completed now. - Good, we'll check it out first thing tomorrow. - No need to worry about that, I've already done it. - Professor, you've been a great help on this project. - We're not off the ground yet, are we? - You're not beginning to doubt? - Oh no, Jeff, I'm confident of our work. - Yes, but there's a but in your voice. - The only reservation I have, the intangibles. There's much we don't know about the moon. I know our ship will perform satisfactorily. - It'll get us there and back, I know it. - That's just it, if we can take off from the moon. - That's your reservation, then. Our ability to leave from the moon's surface. - Precisely. We know the character of the moon's surface is relatively sketchy. We know that the surface temperature of the moon varies for more than 100 degrees centigrade, when the sun is directly overhead, to more than minus 50 degrees at sunset. - Yes, and at midnight, more than 150 degrees. - Whether our ship can withstand this change... - Of that I'm sure. - But Professors Pennant and Nicholson at the Mount Wilson Observatory detected a drop of 150 degrees in the temperature in one hour. - Well, a special characteristic of the rocket's sheathing will allow for that. - But the unbroken rock surface may have been exfoliated by repeated expansion and contraction with the great range in its temperature. - Granted, but we've taken into consideration the accumulation of meteorites and fragments of porous rock shattered by the fall of meteorites. - I say. - And we can still take off, even in all that rubble. - I suppose you're right. - Come on, Professor. What's really at the bottom of all of this? - You're young, Jeff, I'd hate to see you risk your life. You may never get off the moon alive. - I think it's worth the chance. And you're taking the same chance. - At my age, I can afford the luxury of tempting fate. But you're young, you have your whole life ahead. You have a brilliant career in nuclear physics. Don't you understand, Jeff? You can contribute more by staying on Earth. Let others put your hypothesis to test. - When it comes to someone chancing his life on my theory, that someone is going to be me. - Jeff, I'm almost old enough to be your father. And if you were my son, I'd like to see you happy with a wife, with a family. - Hold on, now. I'm not going to give you a lecture on what I hold to be important in life. Just let me say this time, and I hope never again. I'm not interested in marriage or settling down. Science is my life, and nothing else. - All right, Jeff, we won't discuss it again. - Good. Let's get back to work, we've so little time left. Just seven days to our target date, seven days. (liquid bubbling) (electricity whining) (animal chattering) (electricity whining) (liquid bubbling) (soft music) - Oh Cathy, I've checked with the fields, and they say that everything's ready. Where's Dr. Huntley, have you seen him? - [Cathy] Oh, yes, Professor, Dr. Huntley's at his favorite retreat. He told me to tell you. You'll find him down at the rocks. - Okay. (waves lapping) - There you are, Jeff. Cathy said I'd find you here. Everything all right? - Ah, we're mighty lucky. The weather looks great. - [Professor] I've been in contact with the field. Our gear's aboard and checks out. - [Jeff] We're all set, then. - I'm glad you decided not to notify the press. - It's better we leave quietly. - [Professor] The newspaper men would cause a lot of confusion at the field, and if anything goes wrong- - [Jeff] You think something might go wrong? You're not being doubtful again, are you? - Well, this is it, time to be leaving. (soft music) - Now take it easy, Jeff, don't be nervous. - [Jeff] Have a look at beautiful Miami, Professor. In 48 hours we'll be seeing nothing but volcanic ash. - [Professor] You still have no regrets? - [Jeff] No, sir. - [Professor] Good. Well, if everything goes according to plan, we'll be back in Miami in four days. - [Jeff] Then you can get to see that movie you were talking about. - [Professor] Oh, I saw that last night. - [Jeff] But you promised me you were going to get some rest. - [Professor] The picture was well worth it. - [Jeff] Good. - [Professor] Turn on the radio, see if you can get some music. (uptempo jazzy music) - [Professor] Here we are. (suspenseful music) Well, there she is, all set to go. All our plans realized at last. - What a beautiful sight. (dramatic music) (soft pleasant music) (suspenseful music) (suspenseful music continues) Are you ready, Professor? - Right. - This is the biggest moment of my life. How about you? - Uh-huh. Penny as luck. - Thanks, Professor. Ready for countdown. - Come in, control room. - [Radio] Control room ready. - We're all set. - [Radio] You take the controls. - Over. Okay, let's have it. - [Radio] Blast in nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, zero. (rocket zooming) (both groaning) (both coughing) - I hope we've made it. - Ah. Stand by for our first stage separation. Ready. (rocket blasting) Check the nose cone separation. (jet whizzing) Now, let's have a look at the Earth. (professor yawns) (soft music) (Jeff yawns) - Professor. - What? - Stay awake. You've got to stay awake. Professor. (mysterious music) (engine rumbling) (Jeff groaning) Are you all right? - Yes, what happened? - Seems we've made contact, we're not moving. - What? I'm afraid I fell asleep. - So did I, what a climax of the trip! (both chuckling) - Come on. (mysterious music) - [Jeff] Professor! - [Professor] Jeff, it's incredible. - [Jeff] Doesn't look anything like what we had imagined. - [Professor] No one will believe us. - [Jeff] Trees, grass! - [Professor] I'll make notes. The largest telescopes have always pictured the moon as barren, volcanic dust, nothing able to live. - [Jeff] How do we know it is the moon, Professor? Well, it got us here. - [Professor] Look over there, it's all so vast. - [Jeff] There, let's start there. - [Professor] Come on. (mysterious music continues) - [Jeff] What do you think, Professor? - [Professor] All of our instruments, our course, it must be the moon, I know it is. - [Jeff] Perhaps this is one section of the moon that has never been seen. We appear to be at the bottom of a crater. - [Professor] Jeff, look at that lake. - [Jeff] It's unfortunate we have so little time here. - [Professor] How's our oxygen? - [Jeff] We have 13 hours' supply of oxygen, and we've been gone from the ship for three hours. - [Professor] Mmm, well let's go, right. - [Jeff] What irony, Professor. The very first to arrive on the moon, and we're limited to so short a time. - [Jeff] But with your photos and my samples, it'll be simple to finance another expedition, and with enough oxygen to last years. - [Jeff] I'm getting responses from the meter. - [Professor] Ah, fine, fine. - [Jeff] This is a very interesting specimen. Notice the reaction on the meter. - [Professor] There's so much to do. Come on. - [Jeff] It keeps building. The reaction is even more pronounced here. - [Professor] Jeff, look. Look at this rock. - [Jeff] The meter indicates it's gold. - [Professor] How can we manage to get this back to Earth? - [Jeff] It's possible that once we leave the moon, the radiation belt may alter the character of this metal. - [Professor] Ah, but it's worth the chance. It is gold, but suppose it turns to worthless dust. - [Jeff] You know, that could happen. - [Professor] What it amounts to is that we're taking a chance for this. - [Jeff] Our ship cannot possibly carry any extra weight. We carry it at the risk of our lives. It's gold, all right. That's an exceptionally high grade of ore. This is almost all pure, solid gold. Look. - [Professor] Ah, this one's small, but let's take it anyway. - [Jeff] Professor, what are we doing? - [Professor] I'm financing our next trip to the moon. - [Jeff] Why don't we wait until later? - [Professor] Well Jeff, we're limited with our oxygen. Well, the whole field's covered with it. - [Jeff] This is gold too, all right. - [Professor] Look at that ore. - [Jeff] Aye, it's really something. But come on, Professor, we have a lot of work to do. - [Professor] Jeff, be reasonable. We can't leave all this gold lying all over. - [Jeff] We came here not for gold. - [Professor] But Jeff, don't you understand? We can use it. - [Jeff] We came here for science, why are we looking for gold? - [Professor] Jeff, this will pay for equipment on our next expedition. (soft music) Jeff, do you see? There seems to be a clearing over there. - [Jeff] This looks interesting. - [Professor] Directly ahead. - [Jeff] Look at this wall. - [Professor] Mmm, very curious. Its construction suggests that... - [Jeff] Look, one stone upon the other. - [Professor] Yes, I see. It could only have been made by a thinking entity. - [Jeff] I think you're right. (mysterious music) Professor, a ladder. - [Professor] The same construction as on Earth. - [Jeff] Let's go over and examine it. This leads to the top of the wall. - [Professor] Yes, I wonder what's on the other side. - [Jeff] I'm going to find out. - [Professor] Hey, let me go, you stand back. (mysterious music) - [Jeff] Professor, what do you see? (mysterious music) (soft jazzy music) (suspenseful music) (electronic bubbling) (suspenseful music) (wheel cranking) (mysterious music) Professor? Professor, where are you? (Jeff grunting) (electronic bubbling) Professor, are you all right? (wheel cranking) (gong striking) (gong striking) (gong striking) (gong striking) (gong striking) (gong striking) (gong striking) (gong striking) (gong striking) - [Moon Queen] I have summoned you all here for a most important matter. Are these two strangers who have suddenly appeared in our midst our friends? Or do they come as enemies? We shall have a meeting of the Great Council to decide. Go now. I have spoken. Go. (mysterious music) These strange people have come here from another planet. I believe they are here in a spirit of friendship. They wish us no harm. You wonder why they have come here. They seek knowledge about the heavens. Let us release them, and help them in their quest. Listen to what I say. Have faith in your Queen. Go. (mysterious music) - [Jeff] We've got to try to escape. - [Professor] I wonder what caused this partial blackout. - [Jeff] It seems like a dream. - Well, those two men didn't seem dangerous. I didn't hear them talking, yet I'm sure they communicated in some way. - They probably use those antennae on their heads. - That must be the way they communicated. (soft music) - I wonder what they plan to do with us. Look. I think she wants us to follow her out of here. - [Professor] Ah. Ah, she's disappeared. I guess we're free. Ah, let's get to work. We'll go that way. Seems to be an area that they've developed. - [Jeff] It certainly is. - [Professor] Look at that vapor. - [Jeff] I must get a record of that. (liquid bubbling) - This place is deserted. - That was a good shot. Notice anything strange? - This place is deserted, too. - Examine those rocks. - All right, Jeff. I've never seen a specimen like this before. - Let's see. I'll add this to the collection. Very unusual. Let's follow this path. - There's that girl, she's watching us. (playful music) - Hello, I saw you on the throne before. You must be the Queen. I have a feeling that you're responsible for releasing us from that cave. We're here on a scientific expedition. We are friends, do you hear me? Do you understand what I'm trying to tell you? You do know what I'm saying. I think you, I think your people are very friendly. (soft music) - Jeff should get a picture of this! Where is he? Oh, there he is. Now Jeff, really, remember what we came here for. Now, now, come on will you please, we've got to do some work. - I was speaking to the Queen here. - Yes, but she doesn't speak, now you know that. Jeff, you're acting like a schoolboy. - You know what, I feel like a schoolboy. I've never felt like this in my life. Now, we are getting along very well. - But don't forget we're scientists. - Okay, see you later. (soft playful music) - That's a good shot, Jeff, take that, too. (soft jazzy music) - Over here, Professor, let's try this. (ax scraping) - Get those three girls. Let's see, eh, that should be picture number 11. Now, we'll try from that angle, different composition. (soft sultry music) See where she's going, Jeff. I'll make notes of the blonde girl over there. - Mm-hmm. - See what I mean? - Right. (soft uptempo music) (playful music) (soft music) (soft music continues) (uptempo jazzy music) (mysterious music) - Jeff? Jeff? There he is, at the place he saw that girl before. Well, we've gotten some highly useful data, Jeff. - Mm-hmm. Wait, Professor. I must speak to her. ♪ I lost my love to a moon doll ♪ ♪ Who dances upon a star ♪ ♪ I lost my love to a moon doll ♪ ♪ And my heart still bears a burning scar ♪ ♪ I long for you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ A nymph in the pale moonlight ♪ ♪ I pine for you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ For it's you who makes the moon so bright ♪ ♪ For it's you who makes the moon ♪ ♪ So bright ♪ - I'll get it. (soft music) - Look over there, get that scene. (soft uptempo music) - (laughs) Cute, huh, get some pictures of them, Jeff. (soft uptempo music continues) (soft music) - Look at that little fellow, will you? - Looks like little boy takes- - We've got a lot of work to do, we'd better get going. - Notice the vapor rising from her bath. I wonder what causes it, get a picture. (soft music continues) Now there's some lovely creatures. They're going to pose for us. (soft uptempo music) Did you get it? They have mischief in their eyes. I wonder what they're up to? (laughs) Well, we'll come back later. - Wait. You go on with your work. - We don't have time now, our oxygen's running low. - It doesn't matter, you go on. Go ahead. ♪ I'm mooning over you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ With a sad and broken heart ♪ ♪ I'm mooning over you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ For soon the time will come to part ♪ ♪ I'm crying over you, my little angel ♪ ♪ Who lives high in the sky ♪ ♪ I'm crying over you, my little angel ♪ ♪ For back to Earth I soon must fly ♪ (mysterious music) - I've brought something for you. On Earth, we call this candy. (Jeff laughs) You're not supposed to eat the paper. (laughs) - Well, Jeff, we only have enough oxygen to last us an hour, and it may take us that long to get back to the ship, now come on. - I'm not going back with you. - What? Have you gone mad? - Maybe, maybe I'm mad, but I cannot leave here. - Jeff, you don't know what you're saying. If you stay here, you're doomed. - I'm staying right here. Professor, let's take her with us. - Be sensible, even if she did go with us, you know she could never live on Earth. - Suppose you're right. - Come on, boy, there's no time. - I tell you, I'm not going. - Have you forgotten your plans, your projects? - It doesn't matter what you say. I'm not going to leave here. - [Professor] Jeff, what's come over you? We've got to leave, it's now or never. - Don't you understand? I'm in love. For the first time in my life, I care for someone. It's strange, but it's wonderful. - [Moon Queen] Earth man. - Jeff, Jeff, if we don't leave at once, it will be too late. - I too feel something strange and wonderful. - [Professor] Please, will you be sensible? - [Moon Queen] Is this the love you speak about? (liquid bubbling) (soft emotional music) (rocket blasting) My heart does not wish you to go, but I know that you must leave. (soft uptempo music) (wind howling) - Jeff, snap out of it. - Why'd you do it? Why'd you make me go back? - You know you couldn't stay there. - It was worth the chance to be with her. - We'll be back on Earth in two hours. - And tell me, what difference does that make to me now? - What about our plans for the future? (rocket shrieking) - Professor, my camera. - Your camera? - I left it back there. - What are you talking about, you don't have it with you? - Yes, when you dragged me away. - You left it behind? - Who'll believe us? - Oh, no, our only proof. - Dammit! (rocket whirring) (soft somber music) (phone ringing) Hello. - [Professor] Jeff, this is Professor Nichols. I've just come from the field, I'll see you in a few minutes. - What happened? Tell me. - [Professor] Well, all the top brass from the Pentagon looked over the ship, and examined it. - Oh come on, Prof, get to the point. Will they finance another expedition? - [Professor] Jeff, they don't even believe the ship can get off the ground. - Well dammit, we've gone to the moon and back. - [Professor] The moon, we really don't know where we went. - What rotten luck. - [Professor] If only we'd been able to bring back your photographs, my samples. - Ah, I know what you're getting at. If only I hadn't met that girl. Well, I have no regrets. I'll see you later. (soft sultry music) - I heard you were back, Doctor. - I can't believe it, you're here on Earth. I didn't lose you after all. ♪ I lost my love to a moon doll ♪ ♪ Who dances upon a star ♪ ♪ I lost my love to a moon doll ♪ ♪ And my heart stills bears a burning scar ♪ ♪ I long for you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ A nymph in the pale moonlight ♪ ♪ I pine for you, my little moon doll ♪ ♪ For it's you who makes the moon so bright ♪ ♪ For it's you who makes the moon ♪ ♪ So bright ♪