Transcript for Midnight (2020) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (roaring) (buzzing music) (eerie music) (owls hoot) (haunting music) - I wonder who died in here. - At least three or four people, I can tell you for a fact. That's-- - That's Emily and Kennedy. (camera clicks) - Caleb, Caleb. Brother! A demon approaches! (snapping) (girl screams) Kids! - Oh no, oh no! (screams) - Run, run! Run! (girl screams) I'm right behind ya! - Go, go, go. (screaming) (whimpering) (tense music) (screaming) - Help me, help me, help me get this fucking, get this off me. - What, that? - Is this the one, Uncle Caleb? - I told you so. - Looks like it hurts. - You dare doubt my words, child? - No, Uncle Caleb! I would never do that! I said the prayers that you taught me and the prayers that would help me catch it. - Help, help, help, help, help. - The demon, like the one that got your mama sick and put her in the wheelchair. - [Girl In Trap] No! - And that is why we have to destroy it just like the other one. (screaming) Luke. - Oh no. Help, help. Help me, help. - Wait a minute. - [Girl In Trap] Oh, no! - Let Cyrus do it. It'll give him more pleasure. - Please. All right? - Cyrus. - I'm getting me a tattoo to commemorate this one. - Gotta save up for it. - [Girl In Trap] No, no. (screams) (clock ticks) (swirling chanting) - It's midnight, time to begin. (swirling chanting) - Oh, mighty Lord Satan, we ask thee to help us in the destruction of our enemies, as you have done for us today. We pledge ourselves to thee. So we may continue to be thy faithful servants. Whomever you send to us, we shall destroy, knowing it is thy will, amen. (gasping) - Shh! Cynthia, do it now, like I taught you. (swirling chanting) (thudding) (percussive music) - [Children] Oh, mighty Lord Satan, we worship you with all our hearts, and humbly submit to your desires and commandments. We believe, with everlasting conviction, that you are our creator, our benefactor, our lord and master. We renounce the Father and Jesus Christ and all their works and we declare (speakers fade out). (solemn music) (mystical chanting) (droning organ music) - Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. It has been two years since my last good confession. - You say it's been two years since your last good confession? - Yes, Father. - Let me get this straight, young lady. Do you mean to tell me that you haven't been to confession for two years, or are you saying that you made bad confessions during this time? - I made bad confessions, Father. (laughing) - Good Lord, how many? - 10, Father. - How do you mean they were bad? Did you fail to tell some sin you were guilty of? - Yes, Father. - What sin were you afraid to tell? - Having carnal relations with my boyfriend, Father. - I see. Is he Catholic? - Yes, Father, but we broke up. - That was the best thing that could've happened to you. You realize you were living in sin during all that time? - Yes, Father. - And yet you failed to tell this sin in confession so you can receive forgiveness? Does that make sense to you? This one sin could send you to hell forever. Don't you realize that? - Yes, Father. - Would you rather go to hell for all eternity than suffer a little embarrassment in this confessional? - Oh, no, Father. - All right, now, tell me the truth. Do you mean to tell me that you existed in a state of mortal sin for two long years and, during this time, you defiled the sacrament 10 times, and put your soul in jeopardy? - Yes, Father, please, forgive me. - You have committed the grievous sin of sacrilege by making false confessions, and, each time, you committed the worse sacrilege of taking Our Lord's Body and Blood while you were in a state of mortal sin. This is the worst kind of sin a Catholic can commit. You could go to hell forever for this one sin. Do you realize that? You could burn in hell if you had died at any point in these past two years. Your soul would've descended straight into the arms of Satan. I think you must have burned your finger with a match or a candle at one point. You know how that hurts. And if you go to hell, you're gonna burn like that forever, and nothing ever stops the flames. They just burn and burn and burn. They never go out, and that's the way you'll spend eternity. - [Woman] So how many people are in there now? - I got a lot of tattoos. (laughing) - Now make a good Act of Contrition. And, for your penance, say 10 rosaries. Ask Jesus to forgive you for your sins. - Hail, Satan! (laughing) - [Man With Ponytail] I completely agree. - [Man With Tattoos] Woo! - And come to Mass more often, and make good confessions. - Yes, Father. - Now let me hear you say your Act of Contrition. - Oh, my Lord, I am heartily sorry for having offended thee, and I detest my sins because I fear the loss of heaven and the pains of hell, but, mostly, because they have offended thee, my God, who art all good and deserving of all of my love. I firmly resolve, with the help of thy grace, to confess my sins, to do penance, and to amend my life. Amen. (twangy music) (laughing) (twangy music) ♪ Ho, ho ♪ I'm a man of constant sorrow ♪ I live laugh like there's no tomorrow, free ♪ (phone rings) - Hey, Nancy, your phone's ringing! (phone rings) - Hi, Patty. Patty, can you believe I finally went to confession? So embarrassing. - So uncool, too. Church is the opiate of the masses. I learned that in my philosophy class. Just wait til you get to college, Nance. You'll learn stuff that will open your mind. - My mom would freak if she heard you say that. I guess I have my doubts about religion, but I still wanna believe in it. It's better than thinking we're all alone down here. - Well, I'd die before I told a priest or any other dirty old man about my sex life. The fact that they even want to know is really perverted. It's how they try to control you. - Father Stephens gave me hell, Patty. And, after I said my penance, I felt better. I don't know, I guess I just gotta get outta the house. My stepfather's been drinking a lot, and I wanna ask him for the car, but he gets really weird when he drinks. - Well, maybe you can score some booze for me, and, next time I'm in town, we can have a party. It'll be great. (phone dings) Look, I gotta go, I'm getting another call. I'll talk to you later. - Hey, no need to wait for Patty to come in to party. We can party right here. - What are you doing? - I'm about to fuck you on this countertop. - What? You're my stepfather! - Well, technically, yes, but your mom's away and, well, you can call me Daddy if it gets you off. (thudding) - Get away from me! (shattering) (jagged music) Creepy bastard! Damn it, he broke my phone! (somber music) (twangy music) ♪ Oh oh ♪ I am a man of constant sorrow ♪ ♪ I live life like there's no tomorrow, free ♪ ♪ A lot of beer and a lot of women ♪ ♪ Lord knows I'm still sinning cheap ♪ ♪ Am I in too deep ♪ Yeah (quiet music) - Mama, Mama, I need you. The boys need you. What do we have to do? How do we bring you back? Tell me what to do, please. - [Mama Barnes] Easter is coming. The resurrection, Black Friday. Three, I need three, Cynthia. Bring them to me, three young girls, and I will return to you. - Hey, Hailey, honey bun, I was thinking that maybe we could go off the checklist here for camping. - Oh, yeah, let's definitely do that. - First thing, yes, did you bring the map of the national park? - Oh, no, definitely not. - You didn't bring the map. (car whooshes) - No, I have GPS on my phone, it's fine. I'll just-- - Wait, wait. We're going into a wooded area with no electricity and you didn't bring a hard copy? I mean, what happens if your phone dies? - Well, I had charged it fully on the way out, and you have those portable chargers, right? - Yes, okay. - [Hailey] Okay, we should be fine. - Fine, fine. I mean, I like to have a backup, but okay. - Where you going, bitch? - What? - I said, how far do you wanna go? - Williamsburg. - That's quite a distance, a few hundred miles. We may have to stop over at a motel for the night. - What do you mean? - Oh, what about those special hot dog buns? You know, the ones I've been talking about. Did you bring them? - Oh, no, I forget about those. - Oh my God, you forgot my buns? - Don't be coy with me. As soon as I saw that tight little ass, I knew I had to pick you up. Do you ever do anal? - Ew, no! - [Driver] You didn't bring the special hot dog buns? They were imported from Germany! - From Germany? - Yes. - Oh. - But don't worry about it. I got this zombie lube right here. - Ew! - Just kidding. I was just-- - Oh, okay. - I was just messing with you. - All right then. - It's okay. No, I didn't mean it. I was just trying to be funny. - You better get out of here before I call the cops! - [Driver] You know me, I'm a joker. - Oh, yeah, buns from Germany, right, okay. - [Driver] Buns from Germany. You almost fell for it, though. - Yeah. - As a matter of fact, my stepfather is on the police force. - All right, you stuck-up bitch. - Hey, Hailey, you see that over there? - [Hailey] Yeah. - Looks like that girl might be in trouble. - She might be. - Looks like she's hitchhiking. Maybe we should do something about it. - I guess we could pull up and see if anything's happening, or we could just mind our own business, hon. (twangy music) - [Driver] Hey there. Need a lift? - I don't know. - Yeah, it looks like some creep was giving you a hard time. Are you okay? - Yeah, I just wanted to catch a ride with somebody to Williamsburg, but that guy, all he wanted to do was take me to a motel. - We thought we could give you a ride, no strings attached. That way, you could avoid these lunatics. - Well, how far are you going? - We're headed to the national forest down in Virginia. We heard it's really beautiful down there, so we thought we'd check it out. - Okay, well, if I could ride with you as far as you're willing to take me, that'd be great. - Yeah. - I wanna get to my friend Patty's place. - Okay. We can do that, if that's okay with you, sweetie. - Yeah, hop in. (soft music) - I try, Mama, I really try. It's Cynthia, Cynthia's always mean! Me and Luke do everything we're supposed to do, and she always yelling at us, protecting Cyrus. I can't help if Cyrus dumb, you dropped him on his head! - Bert, Bert! What the hell are you doing on the floor? - Oh, hi, honey. - Don't "hi honey" me. Where's Nancy? - How should I know? She wasn't here when I came in. Help me up. - No, I'm not helping you up! Damn drunk, again. Where's my daughter? - I don't know. She wasn't here when I got home. - How did you end up on the floor? - I tripped, it was dark, and I hit my head on this or that and now I'm laying on the floor. - Oh, very trippable. - My head's hurting so bad, honey. I might have a concussion. Where's your compassion at? - Oh, please! WHere's my daughter at? - Probably out partying with friends. - [Mother] Oh, don't you even go there, she doesn't party. - I hate to tell you, but she's not the angel you think she is. - Oh, please! - I heard her on the speakerphone with Patty, and Patty was telling her that next time she's in town, they should steal some of our booze and go party. - I'm not buying it, Bert. This is another cockamamie excuse for you to be drunk, laying on the floor when I come home. - Listen, she's not the angel that you think she is, Harriet. - Don't even start talking about my daughter. - You're hardly ever here. She prances around, dresses all provocative. She was coming on to me. - Do not even go there! - You might be mad, but I'm taking the high road. I just thought you should know before she tells you, makes up something. - You better take the high road, and get the hell away from me. I cannot believe you are saying this about my daughter! - She broke up with her boyfriend. She's looking for a rebound. - Oh my God! This is it! I cannot do this with you! - Listen, I'm gonna lay down. I got a headache. - You do have a headache, you are a headache, Bert. I can't take this! (thrash music) - [Driver] I hope this isn't some podunk place. Excuse me, do you have a restroom? - Yeah, it's right down there to the right. - [Driver] Okay, thanks. - You're gonna buy something, aren't you? (light muzak) $1.06. (light muzak) It doesn't work. - Oh, okay. I have $2 left. - I'll get your change. - Thanks. Want a chip, Hailey? - Nah. - You sure? - You know, when we get back to the campsite, I hope you aren't planning on hanging around with Tom and me. You know, making a pest of yourself. - Don't worry, I can find something to do. - It's nothing personal. I mean, I have nothing against you. It's just that this trip was supposed to be mine and Tom's. - I understand, I'm just really grateful for both of you for taking me to Virginia. - Yeah, just that I've known Tom for years now, and this trip is our first real outing together as a couple. When we get back to the campsite, I'm going to need a little one-on-one time with him, if you catch my drift. - I'm picking up what you're putting down. - Good. - [Tom] Hey, ladies. - You could buy that one. - Found some wine! - [Hailey] Awesome. - You two look like you're up to no good. - [Hailey] You know it. - Come on, let's get this show on the road. How much? - 20.25. - Okay. Here's the 20. Oh, and I've got a quarter in here somewhere. There you go. All right? - Okay. - Thank you, we don't need any bags. Thanks a lot. Let's go, girls. - Have fun. (buzzing music) (twangy music) - Hey, ladies, looks like there's some old guy broken down on the side of the road. Think we should stop and help out maybe. - Wow, it's a really hot day to be broken down on the side of the road. - Yeah, it is. - [Tom] Having car trouble? - Yeah, it's overheating, it's done it before. - I think it's the radiator. - I'm Tom Morgan, by the way. - The Reverend Carrington, and this is my daughter Saundra. - You know, this is gonna seem forward, but we don't get that many people stopping out here. We only live a couple miles up the road. Do you think maybe you could give us a ride? - It'd be great if you could. A walk like that is just too dangerous. - Dangerous? What do you mean? - Yes, there's been people killed and come up missing in the past couple years. I mean, I'd walk it myself, but I don't want her to have to walk it with me. Appreciate a ride. - And we really only do live a couple miles up the road. It's next to Oakmont Cemetery, so you wouldn't even have to pull over that far to let us out. - Yeah, of course, we can give you a ride, and, oh, along the way, maybe you could point out a good spot for me and my girlfriend to set up camp. - Camping, dear Lord, have mercy! Didn't you hear what I said? People are dying around here! I'll tell you what, we got an extra room, just stay at our place. Please, just stay at our place, or, if you can't stay, just get out of the county and keep going. - I was about to make lunch. - Well, that's awfully kind of you, Reverend, but we really had our heart set on camping out under the stars. You know, I'm sure we'll be fine. We're not from around here. Nothing's gonna bother us, we'll be okay. Don't worry about us. - I mean, don't say I didn't tell you. - You know, we'll talk about it. But, here, let me give you a ride, come on. - All right. - Shit, oh, I almost forgot Mom's wreath. (funereal music) Well, I just hope that they remember to not stay camping out here like you warned them. - I'm gonna pray for your mother's blessed memory. Ruth was a good woman. - Daddy can't we just go eat first? We can come back out and pray later. - No, I wanna pray now, and it wouldn't hurt you to stay here with me. We got that wreath to commemorate her memory, and it's been five years since she's passed away. - But you know what, I do pray for her. I just don't remember anything in the Bible saying it needs to be next to her grave. (screeching musical flourish) (funereal music) All right, Daddy, I'm done praying. I'm gonna go in and make a sandwich. I'll have one waiting for you. - All right. (funereal music) - [Man] Preacher man. (squishing) (groaning) (funereal music) (moaning) (funereal music) - Is anyone else hungry? - Yes, definitely. - Yeah, I think this place should probably have some chips we can pick up. - Awesome. Oh, Tom, did you ever find your wallet? - God. - My debit card doesn't even work. - Yeah, I don't even have any change. Okay, well, look, I have an idea. You ladies sit tight, don't move, stay here. I'll be right back. - Okay. - [Nancy] What is he doing? - I don't know, Nancy, but it seems like he's about to do something stupid. (eerie music) (Saundra screams) - Dad! Dad! Dad! Daddy! (Saundra screams) (laughing) (Saundra whimpers) (laughing) (Saundra whimpers) (squishing) (thudding) (crunching) ("Green Bastard" by Scattered Hamlet) ♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa ♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa ♪ We passed the sun ♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa ♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa ♪ Riding tall ♪ Across this land - I think I see it. Let's go. (siren wails) - [Tom] Hold on, guys. We're gonna try to outrun them. (siren wails) Okay, guys, hold on to your butts. (siren wails) (pounding rock music) Oh, shit! Hold on a second. (tires screech) All right, here we go. (pounding rock music) I think we lost them. ♪ Guitar band ♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa ♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa ♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa (laughing) - [Officer] What is that? (siren buzzes) (synthesizer music) - Sir, put your hands where I can see them. What are you doing? - [Blonde Officer] Is that a body? (laughing) - I said, don't move! (laughing) (thudding) Ah, my arm! (gasping) - Here, kitty, kitty, kitty! Here, kitty, kitty, kitty. (sobbing) Oh yeah! (laughing) (screaming) Get down, bitch! (laughing) (whimpering) (screaming) This one's good. (sobbing) Cry. Cry! (screaming) (sobbing) Scream! You taste very good! (laughs) Brother! Come! - The last mistake you'll ever make, boy, was driving down this road. (laughing) Little pig, little pig. (haunting music) Let me in. (groaning) (clapping) - Did it hurt, did it hurt? (laughs) Yeah, brother! Yeah. (laughs) (twangy rock music) ♪ Yeah - [Bert's Wife] Bert, wait. - Yes? - I can't help but think that something happened between you and Nancy the other night. - [Bert] No, nothing happened between us. - I'm just so worried she hasn't called. - Maybe her cell phone's battery went dead. It really hasn't been too too long. The other night I was drunk. You know, you saw me passed out on the floor. But that's all that happened. I woke up and nobody's home. - It's just not like her. - I'll check with County, and, if I hear anything, you'll be the first to know. - Please, I'm so worried. (chuckling) (gasping) (screaming) - [Man In Mask] And now the real fun begins! Get her, brother. - Oh, we're gonna have some fun with you. (laughing) - Let me out! Amy! - Cyrus. Go ahead and get her caged up. - Amy. - Come on, get up, come on, get up. Ah, damn it! (squishing) - No, no! (squishing) - [Man In Plaid] Enough, Cyrus! - Ah, fuck, here comes Cynthia, Jesus. - [Cynthia] What the hell is this? - She bit him. I would've killed her, too. That's what you do to bad dogs. You put 'em down. - Yeah, well, okay, you can clean it up then. You go get cleaned up. You go tell Mama. I'll talk to Caleb. (chuckling) - Bullshit. - Mama, I hope you don't think I've done wrong. We didn't mean to kill that girl, but she hurt Cyrus pretty bad, and we all know that Cyrus has an awful temper, but it was the girl's fault, and, if Cynthia says otherwise, well, that just ain't so! Me and Abraham, we'll find us another girl, someone young and pretty, maybe even a virgin. Mama, me and Abraham, we'll do what's right, just like you taught us. - Cynthia, Cynthia! - It's okay, Uncle Caleb. - Where's your damn brother at? Where's Cyrus? Cyrus! - It's okay. It's okay, Uncle Caleb. Don't be mad at Cyrus. He'll fix it, he'll get another one. She just got feisty, it happens, it'll all be okay. - No, no, no, he's getting too tough with them, he's getting too tough and he's wasting goddamn time! We need more blood! - We have plenty of blood. We have plenty of blood for Mama. - Not for Mama, Mama has enough blood! We need it for me! Do you understand, we need it for me! You know, you know, Mama put me in charge of the family until she gets better, you know this! So I need more blood to maintain my power! - Okay, Uncle Caleb. - Don't you walk away from me, girl. Cynthia! Girl! I need more blood to keep my power up! - [Cynthia] Okay, Uncle Caleb. - Don't you, don't you walk away, girl! Don't you get sassy with me, you bitch! I'm gonna have you and that worthless piece of shit brother of yours flog each other until your bones show through your bloody, flayed skin! You hear me? - Okay, Uncle Caleb. - Cynthia! Cynthia! Cyrus! (Cyrus laughs) - You know, I accidentally killed too many people today. (Cyrus laughs) (insects chirrup) - [Tom] Watch your step. (insects chirrup) (droning, ominous music) (fire crackles) ♪ You're on your own, you're all alone ♪ ♪ You can't go back anymore ♪ You're on your own, you're all alone ♪ ♪ And midnight's at your door ♪ Forever more ♪ Forever more - Thanks for letting me play, guys. I'm gonna go for a walk. - Sure. - I guess we're alone now. - I guess so. - [Hailey] I've been waiting for this for so long. - Yeah. I'm kind of a little shellshocked to tell you the truth. I didn't think it would ever happen. - Why is that? - Well, I don't know, I just... I guess I just don't have a whole lot of confidence in myself, but-- - Oh, there's no reason not to. - I mean Nancy might come back at any moment. - [Hailey] Maybe not, though. - Uh, yeah. Maybe, maybe not. (percussive, funky music) I love you, Hailey. I love you! - I've been waiting so long to hear you say that. I love you, too. (gun bangs) (Tom sputters) - Oh, oh my God, oh my God, oh my God, oh my God! - Well, well, well. That was just precious. You know what, I gotta be honest. I couldn't take it anymore. - Did my brother prevent you from getting your cherry popped, huh? 'Cause I can help you with that! - Why would you do that? - Listen, boy, around here, no lives matter. - Where are the cops? - What do you think this badge represents, the Boy Scouts? - No, no, no, no, no, you're not the cops! You can't be the cops! You wouldn't do that! - Brother, I think he's gonna cause us a problem. I think maybe we need to call for backup. - Yeah, I think we need to call for backup. Hello, police. Police, can you hear me? I don't think she can hear you anymore. (Tom whimpers) - Looks like you gotta talk to us. Now, we got some questions for you. First of all, where's the girl? - What, what are you talking about, what girl? - Look, you trespassing on our land, so she can be black, brown, white, polka dot. You trespass on our ground, you die! (laughs) - Calm down, breathe, it's gonna be okay. I'm not gonna kill you. But he is. - Oh yeah. - No, no, no, no. No, no, no. - Oh yeah! Oh yeah! - [Tom] No, no, no! (thudding) (screaming) - [Abraham] You're a messy motherfucker, aren't you? Brother, you always let me have all the fun, huh? - Abraham, let's go get the other girl. We're gonna be in trouble for killing that one. - Hey, we can always blame Cyrus. (gentle music) (insects chirrup) (dramatic music) - Woo ooh! - Wakey, wakey, eggs and backey. - We killed your other two friends. Now it's your turn. (laughs) (Nancy screams) Come back, little doggy, come back! (exciting music) (Nancy grunts) (exciting music) Oh, Abraham! Get her! - I got her, I got her. (exciting, pounding rock music) (laughs) You can run, but you can't hide! (exciting, pounding rock music) I'm coming! I'm coming! (chuckles) (exciting, pounding rock music) I smell you. I smell you, little doggy. Where are you? Here comes Daddy! (thudding) (Abraham groans) Fuck! Luke! (groans) - Where'd she go? - The bitch hit me! She went that way, you go that way, I'll go the other! (Abraham growls) (droning music) - Help me, please, someone, please help! Oh my God, please. They killed my friends, so, please, help me! Do you have a phone? - Oh, look, death. (rumbling rock music) - Please, help, please. Somebody, please, help, oh my God. Oh my God, my friends. (screams) Oh my God! (screams) - Come on, little piggy. (Nancy screams) (Nancy screams) (Abraham chuckles) - Come on, poochie. - Get down there, dog. - In the cage. Get in there or I'm gonna shoot you right between the eyes. (Abraham barks) (Abraham laughs) - [Abraham] Welcome to your new home, bitch. - Stop. (trembling music) (computer beeps) - [Bert] Okay, Nancy, let's see if I can find you. (computer beeps) Come on, you gotta be out there somewhere, Nancy. (computer beeps) Come on, come on. (computer beeps) Bingo. All righty, Nancy, what are you doing? Okay. If it'll just turn just a little bit so we can see that plate. Gotcha. (computer beeps) Robbery at Bedford, Virginia. Nancy, what have you gotten yourself involved in? (trembling music) - My name is Gwen Davis. They killed my sister Amy. (screeching musical flourish) We've got to find a way out of here before they kill us, too. (rat squeaks) (growling rock music) You're just like us. Please, you have to know what we're going through. - I'm nothing like you. I have special powers. You'll find out Friday at midnight. - What happens on Friday? - [Cynthia] (gasps) The ceremony! - Ceremony? Do you mean to tell me you're religious like me? - Oh, I'm religious all right, but not like you. - My name is Nancy. I believe in the Lord, don't you? - You believe in the Lord. Oh, I believe in the Lord all right, but not yours. - What if I said I believed as you do. Would you let me go? - A false profession of faith isn't gonna fool me. It's too late for you to be saved. And you. (clock ticks) Oh, mighty Lord Satan, we humbly ask you to accept this sacrifice so that we may continue to serve. (screeching musical flourish) (squishing) (mystical chanting) - Oh my God, they killed her! They killed her! (mystical chanting) (quiet music) - Harriet, wake up! - What'd you find out? - Looks like she ran away. - What? - There's video footage of her getting into an SUV. - What are we gonna do? - I took some time off. I'm gonna go locate her. - Well, I'm coming with you. - No, I need you to stay here in case she returns. Call me if she does. In the meantime, I have an SUV to find. (quiet music) - Mama, Mama, wasn't it wonderful of that beautiful young girl to give you her heart? You have a new heart! I think I can hear it beating in your chest. It was such a beautiful heart, and she was so happy to give it to you. You're gonna come back, Mama. We're all gonna be young again and happy, just like in the old days. - [Mama Barnes] It's not just the heart I need. I need the blood. The power is in the blood. Three girls, and I will return to you. (meat sizzles) - [Girl] Man, those burgers smell good! - Yeah, damn right they do. - Hey, wanna go throw some Frisbee? - [Girl] Sure. - [Party Goer] I do, hell yeah, brother. Hook me up a Kielbasa. (bluesy music) (Frisbee snaps) - Sorry, didn't mean to throw it that hard. - It's okay, I'll get it. (dramatic music) - Fuck, they killed Kenny! (rock music) (Cyrus chuckles) (girl screams) (girl pants) - Oh yeah! My favorite, right? (chuckles) Oh yeah! (Abraham grunts) Open your mouth for Daddy. (Abraham chuckles) (Abraham shouts) You like it, brother? Don't die yet, I'm not done, don't die! Don't die! Fuck, she died! (Abraham shouts) You like that, you like that? (laughs) Where the fuck's Cyrus? I can't help I like the girlies. They're so pretty! It's like chocolate right in front of my face. What am I supposed to do? I don't know, Mama, I don't know at all. What, what? I can't hear you. Oh, yeah, yeah, you're right. - What can we do? There's no use of us trying to escape. - Nancy, please, pull yourself together. Maybe, maybe I can seduce one of the brothers, and that'll at least distract him. I'll even kill one of them if I have to. (cage rattles) - [Cyrus] Yeah! - Cyrus, enough! You're in enough trouble. (Cyrus chuckles) - I am heartily sorry for having offended thee, my God. And I renounce all my sins because I dread the loss of heaven and the pains of hell. - Why are you praying? It's not gonna do you any good. - Don't you believe in God? - Oh, we've been through this. I believe in Satan. - I was taught that God sent his son to die for our sins and suffer, and he's asking me to suffer, too. - Well, yeah, you're gonna suffer, that's for sure. He's doing real good by ya, getting you stuck here as food for his enemy. Were you such a great and terrible sinner? Evil is more powerful than good. Even your God's only son called out in his final moments, "Why, why hast thou forsaken me?" - We're taught not to question him. - Oh, how convenient. (droning organ music) - Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. It has been six months since my last confession. I've harbored impure thoughts. - What sort of impure thoughts? - About my stepdaughter, Father. - Have you acted upon these thoughts? - No. Well, I almost did, and my actions drove her to run away from home. - Well, has she forgiven you? Has she returned home? - No, Father, and her mother is all torn up about it. And the truth is, I don't even know how to tell her what I've done. - Well, you must certainly do so, and you must ask her forgiveness. Do you understand, my son? - Yes, but how can I do that, Father? - I have no way of knowing, but you must atone. You must make amends to the best of your ability, so I will make this your penance, you must tell the truth to all concerned, and you must do your very best to bring your stepdaughter home to her mother. - Yes, Father. ♪ It only hurts when I'm wrong ♪ Hurts when I'm wrong ♪ I never beg, but I sometimes borrow ♪ - All right, Dean, I understand. Don't stay out there too late. Listen, I gotta go. Yeah, I'll call you back. - Sheriff Cunningham? I'm Bert Johnson with Karmen PD. - All right, Mr. Johnson, how can I help you? - It's my stepdaughter Nancy, she ran away. We had a little misunderstanding between her and I. I'm hoping I can find her, persuade her to come home. Hell, I promised her mother I'd at least try to make things right. - I wouldn't be too hard on myself, Mr. Johnson. You know teens these days, they run off. - Well, be that as it may, her mother's going crazy worrying about her. - How is it you think I can help you? You ain't from around here. - Two days ago, when Nancy left, she was hitchhiking. She got picked up by an SUV. Now, fortunately for me, that SUV was under a traffic cam, and I ran the tags through NCIC. - Now, you're telling me that you tracked that vehicle all the way up here? - Yes, sir. In fact, it seems that some kids stole some groceries right here in this very town, and the vehicle they were driving was the same SUV that matches my SUV. - Huh. That's pretty good police work there, Mr. Johnson. - Thank you, sir. The only problem is, when and if I do find Nancy, looks like she might be facing some petty larceny charges. She's undoubtedly one of the kids you're looking for. - Well, I'm afraid this is where I give you some bad news. She may be in worse trouble than that, sir. - What do you mean, Sheriff? - Well, two of my deputies were pursuing that very vehicle, and they've dropped out of sight. Now, the patrol car was found with the radiator all smashed in, but there was no sign of my deputies. - My God. - Yeah, I got a couple other men out there looking for them right now, but, here's the thing, now the folks who live out in that back country, they, well, most of them are smoking meth or something worse, if there is something worse. They don't take kindly to police. In fact, you go out there poking around, asking a bunch of questions, it could be downright dangerous for you, sir. - Well, Sheriff, I was thinking about going after that SUV. - Okay, I reckon I can't stop you. If you don't get ambushed, hell, you might even run into my deputies. I'll show you the exact spot on the map where the car was found. It's on this map. You take this spot right here. - I'm gonna take a picture. - Yeah, that's all right. Okay, you're gonna come out of town here on 98, and that'll put you headed out west toward (speaker fades out). (tense, spooky music) (screaming) (tense, spooky music) - Cynthia, Cynthia! Cynthia, get me water for my tub. - Here's your towels, here's your soap. Get your own damn water. - You know, your mama used to give me my sponge baths because she knew, your mama knew, that a woman's place is to serve the master of the house. - Well, I've got news for you, Mama is the master of the house. - Oh, no. Your mama gave her powers to me! And I, I am the supreme being of this clan. So, if I tell you to get on your hands and knees and wash my ass, you damn well better get on your knees and wash my ass. (Cynthia laughs) - I got news for you, Mama didn't give you the power. She gave the power to me! (magical roaring) (pulsing music) - Cynthia, no! (thudding) (squishing) (pulsing music) - Mama, Mama, I had to do something today. I had to do something to Uncle Caleb. He was out of control, like a rabid dog. You know what we have to do to them. Mama, he said, he tried to claim that you gave him your power. Well, I showed him, 'cause I felt you with me, and I showed him that you gave your power to me. Uncle Caleb isn't with us anymore, but that's okay, 'cause you are. You're still with us, mama, aren't you? You're coming back, right? You're coming back to us. I did good, Mama, didn't I? Did I do good? - [Mama Barnes] Yes, yes, you did well, Cynthia. (Abraham panting) - Caleb, Caleb! What has Cynthia done? We don't do this to family. You ain't going to the well, Uncle. You ain't going in the well, Uncle. (pulsing music) We're almost there, Uncle, almost there. I'll be damned if you go in that well. (pulsing music) Oh, Satan! I bring you my Uncle Caleb. Restore him to your demon ranks! I renounce Jesus Christ, for you are Lord. Help me and my brother Luke. Help us and bring us power. Help us, for you are my Lord. Bring him back! Help me and Luke restore him! Lord Satan! (clock ticks) - It's midnight. Time to begin. (mystical chanting) - Hail to you. (mystical chanting) (phone rings) - Hello? - Bert, where are you? It's been two days. - I'm sleeping at a rest area in Charlottesville. - Sleeping, what the hell, Bert? You're supposed to be finding Nancy. She could be in trouble! - I am looking for Nancy, Harriet. Hell, I've been up and down every shithole back road in the past three states, and I still haven't found her. I'm tired, Harriet. I just need to rest because if I keep driving this truck, I might drive over somebody. - I'm telling you, don't bother coming home if you don't. - Whatever. (growling rock music) - Oh my God, I am heartily sorry for having offended thee and I dread the loss of heaven and the pains of hell. - Oh mighty Lord Satan, we humbly ask that you accept this sacrifice. (mystical chanting) (screeching musical flourish) - And lead me not into temptation, and deliver me from evil, amen! (mystical chanting) - Here, Mama, drink this, drink, Mama. Come to life. Come to life for your baby boy. Come on, drink. (mystical chanting) ♪ Come on, let's get hopping ♪ Blow down to the honky-tonk jam ♪ ♪ I've got the blues, but she's still squawking ♪ ♪ I'm not coming down ♪ Come on ♪ We all should walk in ♪ Low down, I gotta beat the clock in ♪ ♪ I got my boots ♪ I start walking til I'm six feet in the ground ♪ ♪ Another problem with no solution ♪ - Bartender, a bourbon, make it a double. - Care to buy a girl another? - One for her, as well. (bluesy rock music) Let's drink. So you like bourbon, too, huh? - Oh, always, drink of choice. - Absolutely, not for wimps. (bluesy rock music) (Abraham growls) (Cyrus chuckles) ♪ I start walking til I'm six feet in the ground, yeah ♪ ♪ And you know, you win some, lose some ♪ ♪ It's like my mama said - Two beers. One for us, none for him. - How I wound up in this podunk town, it's a long story. - I don't even know why you come. - I do. (Abraham chuckles) - Yeah, well, it's my stepdaughter Nancy. (mellow rock music) ♪ Ho ho ♪ I am a man of constant sorrow ♪ All I can do is try to forget about all that and have a shot of bourbon with a beautiful redhead. - You know, it seems like an awful lot of bad decisions have been made recently. - I'm good for that, for sure. - Care to go outside and make one more bad decision with me? - I'll drink to that. - To bad decisions. - To bad decisions. ♪ My freedom (bar patrons chattering) (funky music) (pulsing music) - Hey, what do you say once that Kia leaves we'll--. - I can't believe this. - Finish what we started. - Listen, I gotta go, I'm so sorry. - [Redhead] What? (truck revs) (insects chirrup) (eerie music) - Freeze, stop right there, and don't make any fast moves. Where is my daughter? - What are you, a cop? - [Bert] I'll ask the questions around here. Where the fuck is my daughter? - (chuckles) She may be right here. Why don't you come check. (chuckles) - Let's see. Is her name Gwen? Stacie, Sharon? Or Nancy? - It's Nancy. - (laughs) He's in luck, brother, 'cause his baby girl is all nice and comfy inside. - Who else is in the house? - Just our brother. - You tell your brother to bring Nancy out now! - Okay. Just don't shoot. - Don't tempt me. (Abraham laughs) - Abraham. - Yeah, whatever you say, brother. Cyrus! Cyrus, get your ass out here, boy! And bring that girl! We got a pig! (Cyrus laughing) - You're safe now, no one's gonna hurt you. Stand back, boy. (Cyrus laughs) (gun bangs) (Cyrus gags) (Cyrus laughs) (Cyrus gags) - Cyrus, no! (magical roaring) - [Nancy] Dad! - Luke, Abraham, get her! (exciting music) - Come out, come out! That was my brother! (Abraham groans) (exciting music) (magic sizzles) - Take that, you bitch! (magic whooshes) (Luke screams) (fire crackles) Luke! (Luke screams) (fire crackles) (rumbling, droning rock music) - Oh my God, I am heartily sorry for having offended thee. (demon growls) And I renounce all my sins because I dread the loss of heaven and the pains of hell, but mostly because they have offended thee, my God, who are all good and deserving of all of my love. I ask you to amend my life. (magic sizzles) (magic roars) Amen! (demon roars) (magic sizzles) (demon roars) (magic sizzles) (booming) (insects chirrup) (droning music) (truck revs) (screeching musical flourish) (Nancy screams) ♪ All the roads facing you are broken ♪ ♪ By a bend ♪ All the people surrounding you ♪ ♪ Don't want to be your friend ♪ All the hope keeping you ♪ Has finally reached an end ♪ And it's coming 'round to midnight ♪ ♪ You're all alone and it's midnight again ♪ ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone ♪ You can't go home anymore ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone ♪ And midnight's at your door ♪ Forever more ♪ You fought the rules and lost yourself ♪ ♪ And broke what would not bend ♪ ♪ You finally looked into your past ♪ ♪ To find your way again ♪ The faith you found will see you through ♪ ♪ And help you in the end ♪ 'Cause it's coming 'round to midnight ♪ ♪ You're all alone and it's midnight again ♪ ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone ♪ You can't go home anymore ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone ♪ And midnight's at your door ♪ Forever more ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone ♪ You can't go home anymore ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone ♪ And midnight's at your door ♪ Forever more ♪ Forever more ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone ♪ You're on your own ♪ You're all alone (Abraham screams) ♪ You're on your own (Abraham panting) (synthesizer music) - Uncle Caleb, I'm joining you in your eternal rest. (Abraham groans) ("Wishing Well" by Scattered Hamlet) (roaring) (shimmering music)