Transcript for Foreign Student (1994) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- ( tower bells tolling ) ( rings doorbell ) ( all chattering ) ( cheering ) Philippe Leclerc! Philippe's voice: In 1955 when I was 18 I was afforded, in the words of my favorite teacher, an interlude of inestimable value-- a scholarship to Asheland-Stuart University in Virginia. ( train whistle blows ) - I'll take that from you. - Pardon? I'll carry that for you. No, thank you. Fine. The college is that way. ( train whistle blows ) ♪ Life could be a dream ♪ ♪ Life could be a dream ♪ ♪ Too-doo too too sh-boom ♪ ♪ Life could be dream, sh-boom ♪ ♪ If I could take you up in paradise up above, sh-boom ♪ ♪ And you would tell me I'm the only one that you love ♪ ♪ Life could be a dream, sweetheart ♪ ♪ Hello hello again, sh-boom, and hoping we'll meet again ♪ ♪ Hey nonny ding dong, alang alang alang ♪ ♪ Oh oh oh bip, a-be-ba-do ba-dip ♪ ♪ Oh, life could be a dream, sh-boom ♪ ♪ If only all my precious plans would come true, sh-boom ♪ ♪ If you would let me spend my whole life loving you ♪ ♪ Life could be a dream, sweetheart ♪ ♪ Too-doo too too, sh-boom ♪ ♪ Every time I look at you ♪ ♪ Something is on my mind ♪ ♪ If you do what I want you to ♪ ♪ Baby, we'd be so fine ♪ ♪ Oh, life could be a dream, sh-boom ♪ ♪ If I could take you up in paradise up above, sh-boom ♪ ♪ Now tell me, darling, I'm the only one that you love ♪ ♪ Life could be a dream, sweetheart ♪ ♪ Hello hello again, sh-boom, and hope we'll meet again ♪ - Girl: How are you doing? - Philippe: Fine. ♪ Alang alang alang ♪ ♪ Oh oh bip, a-be-ba-do ba-dip ♪ ♪ Oh, life could be a dream ♪ ♪ Life could be a dream, sweetheart. ♪ Aren't you Lucky Pierre? No, Philippe Leclerc is my name. Yeah, right. Okay, Lucky Pierre... Philippe's voice: That is what Frenchmen were called in those days-- an allusion to our mythical ways with the ladies. My advice, Phil, for what it's worth-- go whole hog. Whole hog? Yeah, jump in with both feet, really involve yourself, join the band, the debating society, that sort of thing. But I don't play an instrument. I see. Well, that is a pity. Any sports? Yes, football. For real? Yes. I scored nine goals last spring. No shit. We call them touchdowns over here. - Wide receiver, right? - Of course. Boy, you guys have guts. ( boys chattering ) All right, girls, practice practice. - Hey, it's Cal. - Cal, how are you doing? Hey, buddy. - Right on, Cal. - Hey, Cal. Hi, coach. Philippe's voice: That was Cal Parnell Cate, our quarterback. They just didn't make them that way in France. They still don't. So is this the Frenchy I'm supposed to try out? He scored nine TDs in Paris. Oh, really? Paris, Texas? No, Paris, France. Okay, kid, let's go. It's your funeral. Paris, eh? ( exhaling rhythmically ) Coach: Keep it up, keep it up. That's not good enough. Come on now. Come on, keep it up. All right, Frenchy, now you tell the chief-- and no forked tongue-- you ever play this game? No. Just what you call soccer. Now I got to be square with you, pilgrim, this here game-- it ain't for everyone, you know? I mean, you got to like getting hit. ( yelling ) Hey, you like getting hit? I don't know. All right, forget it. Forget it. Just go out for a pass. All right, you see this line? Yes, I do. Okay, tenderfoot, this here is a 30-yard line we're standing on now, all right? When I say "hut hut" you are gonna run like hell down to the 20-yard line, turn around and catch this here sucker. I want you to concentrate on the point of the football. And don't think. Hut hut! All right, Frenchy, you're quick. Hey, next time you catch that ball with your hands, all right, never ever with the chest. Okay, let's go. Let's go. Let's do it again. Hut hut! ( thunder rumbling ) Lay low. Chief Shitting Bull just arrived. Mr. Cate, Mr. Cal Cate, you think you're gonna be able to quarterback this football team with a beer gut, huh? Who's your little playmate? Phil Leclerc from Paris, France. Just messing around. Nobody messes around on my field, mister. We play full-out or not at all. Go out for a pass, boy. Hut hut! What kind of silly shit is that? You lost your arm too? Throw him a bullet. You don't want to jam his fingers first day out, do you? Put some zip on it. All right, kid, listen. I'm gonna throw it hard-- real hard, okay? So listen, whatever you do, catch it with your palms this time, not your fingers, or you'll never play piano again. I don't play piano, Cal. Hut hut! Oh, nice hands. Let's see if he can take a hit. Come on, coach, that's bullshit. Why don't you give the guy a break? Football's a man's game, Mr. Cate. Men get hit. The sooner we find out if he can take it, the better it is for all of us. Lewis, cover the kid. Coach. ( growling ) But I'm much faster without all this armor. Better tighten that strap, son. All right, listen, you see that guy, okay? ( growling ) When you catch the ball he is gonna hit you like you ain't never been hit before. I know him. He's a sadistic son of a bitch. There's only one thing you can do, Phil-- just stay as loose as a goose, okay? And then jump up. Even if you think you're in Bangkok don't give him the satisfaction, all right? Oui, mon colonel. Shit. On three. Hut hut hut! ( grunts ) ( moaning ) That's great, coach. That's a great idea. How are you feeling, Hoss? ( boys chattering ) I don't know. Strange. Hey, I really tried but I could not get up. Don't worry about it. Listen, Lewis-- that bastard laid a big-time hit on you. Listen, I'll catch you later, all right? I'll come by and take you for a ride. A ride? A ride? ♪ Oh, yes ♪ ♪ I'm the great pretender ♪ ♪ Pretending ♪ ♪ That I'm doing well ♪ ♪ My need is such ♪ ♪ I pretend too much ♪ ♪ I'm lonely ♪ ♪ But no one can tell. ♪ ( screaming ) Philippe's voice: True to his word, Cal collected me a few nights later with two girls in tow. My date was called Sue Ann. Quit staring, will you? I'm very sorry, but you are so very beautiful it is difficult not to. Are you really from Paris? Yes, really. Bet you had a lot of girls already. Well, not lots, but some, yes. It's normal, no? Not in Wallatoona, it isn't. Wallatoona? Where is that? South Carolina, silly. South Carolina City? You're weird. Sue Ann: No. Hey hey hey, easy, tenderfoot. Come on now, these here girls don't know from Frenchin'. I said no. No. I said no. ( distant dogs barking ) Hey hey. Cheers. Sue Ann said she wanted to see me again. No, that's a big mistake, Hoss, a big mistake. You'd better just save yourself for the one and only. Who is the one and only? She's the love of your life, man. She's out there somewhere just waiting for you. Don't blow it by going steady with some dame from SC. Hell, Phil, I reckon I must have dated at least... a hundred girls since I've been here. And how many did you do it with? Rule number one, amigo-- good girls don't do it. And rule number two-- it don't count if you don't do it with a good girl. You see, dog and pigs don't count. But what if you want her too much? What if you just can't stand it anymore? Well, then I guess you do like everybody else-- make out with your right hand in the shower. Yeah. I believe Southern Bouquet is probably about the best soap for that. See, it's nice and white and it smells good. And, hell, you can pick it up anywhere. What about whores? Oh. Danger, disease, disgrace, thrown out of frat, heap big danger. Come on, Phil, me a Southern gentleman. See, white whores don't exist and black whores are off-limits. Besides... Besides what, Cal? Well, there just ain't no whores in the Shenandoah Valley. Philippe's voice: One of my teachers, Rex Jennings, lived there with his wife Doris. He introduced me to writers like Raymond Chandler and Salinger whose books I devoured. ( thud ) ( creaking ) Doris? Hi. Hello. I am terribly sorry. I thought it was Doris. You're foreign, aren't you? You're not an ordinary student. Is my accent that bad? No. I can tell by the fact that you can look me in the eyes. American boys can't seem to look Negro girls in the eyes. Do you want some coffee? Yes, please. What's your name? Philippe. Philippe. Philippe's voice: Suddenly I realized that I hadn't heard my own name in months. I hadn't been Philippe since I left Paris. Careful. It's hot. You like this book? I don't know. I am only on page two. Have you read it? Read it and taught it. I don't just clean houses. I'm a teacher. - At college? - No. I teach elementary school on the other side of town. But now I have to go. No, please, five more minutes. Non, Philippe, ce n'est pas possible. Vous parlez Francais? Well, through the mail. I took this correspondence course. But now I have to go. No, stay for just a moment. Say my name again. Please. Why should I say your name? Because nobody calls me by my real name. And when you say it it makes me feel less lonely. Are you lonely, Philippe? Sometimes. Are you lonely now? No. What's your name? April. Hey, kid. I'm glad you're still here. So how are you cottoning to old JD there? I am in love. I know what you mean. Wait till you get to the part where he dreams of catching the boys. No no, with a girl. Oh, well, that's great, kid. Do I know her? No, I don't think so. I'm afraid I have to go. I have class at noon. Well, take the book, junior-- the least I can do. Thank you. You did a lot. Careful now. Don't let those Southern belles spin your head around. I won't. ( boys chattering ) - Hey, Frenchy. - Hello. Merci beaucoup. ( laughing ) ( dance music playing ) Have you seen Cal around? Cal? Cal who? Please. Cal Cate. He's over there watching TV. Cal, can I borrow your car? Are you kidding me? That's a big favor, Greenhorn. It needs a big trade. You have a French exam coming up, don't you? - Can you guarantee me an A? - Of course. - You got a license? - I have everything-- a license, money, insurance. One scratch and I'll pay you 1000 times. Oh, Frenchy, Frenchy. Boy, you are lying when you're lying. But if you want I'll take you where you need to go. So, pard, is this just a joy ride or you actually want to go someplace? I want to go where the black people live. No shit! Frenchy wants to go to nigger town. What did you do, boy, go and get yourself some whore? She's not a whore. Her name is April. Look, just tell me where it is and I'll walk. Oh, okay, now he's gonna walk in the nigger town. Boy, they'll take them straight razors and cut your French ass to ribbons. No, me Southern gentleman, me keep his word. But I don't have to like it. ( people chattering ) ( baby crying ) I don't suppose we got an address on this maid, huh? April. No. She teaches school. Not at this hour, she don't. I'll tell you what-- I know the Cates rode with Lee. If I had a couple of boys like this on my team-- take conference every year. Why don't you ask the coach? Yeah, sure, the day it rains beer. Look, let's just get the hell out of here, all right? No, please, another five minutes. All right, you said she was a school teacher, right? Let's go to the church. They'll know where to find her. ( dogs barking ) Philippe's voice: There are two hearts that beat in the body of America. One is hidden behind the other. And once I heard its cry, nothing was ever quite the same for me. ( people singing psalm ) All right, Hoss, last chance. Big Cal needs his sleep. ♪ ...Just to know ♪ ♪ Thus saith the Lord ♪ ♪ 'Tis so sweet ♪ ♪ To trust in Jesus ♪ ♪ Just to take Him ♪ ♪ At His word ♪ ♪ Just to rest... ♪ Philippe, what in God's name are you doing here? Looking for you. Children, I know God is love, but you'd better take this outside. ♪ ...Just to know ♪ ♪ Thus saith the Lord... ♪ ( door creaks ) How did you know how to find me? Inspiration. Okay, Philippe, what do you want? I must see you again. Otherwise I will die. Well, we can't have that now, can we? No, my parents will be very sad. Give me one good reason why I should see you. Because... I think sometimes you must be lonely too. And of course I can give you French lessons. All right. You be here the day after tomorrow. 4:00. Well, I got to say one thing, Phil-- if you're gonna risk your neck for a colored girl, it might as well be her. Isn't she beautiful? Isn't she the most beautiful girl you've ever seen? Sure she is, Hoss. I mean, she's really something. And so are you, so just be careful. Why? Why is everybody warning me? Because we're from the South. What do you see that's so bad? Nothing. I mean, hey, if she's your one and only, maybe God will protect y'all. But there's just one thing, Phil, and this is real important-- hey, you don't breathe a word of this affair of the heart to anyone. You understand? Okay? Or we're all dead. Philippe's voice: My favorite teacher was a man with the improbable name of Zachariah Wilhelm Gilmore, the Liberal Arts Dean and the living legend. During the war he had worked under Wild Bill Donovan, the founder of the CIA, and returned to the Shenandoah Valley with a chestful of medals and his reputation made. We called him Zach. Now some poets, ladies and gentlemen, turn their lives into their great poems. Do any examples spring to your eager minds? The dreamy-eyed Monsieur Leclerc? Byron, sir? Byron. Byron! He had to mention Byron, the one man who confounds us all. But why don't we mention Bulgakov, who had to share his mistress with Stalin so he could write the "Master and Margarita" while locked in a duel to the death with morphine? Or Harry Crosby or Monsieur Rimbaud? You mentioned Harry Crosby, sir. I'm not familiar with that name. Harry? Crosby was a Brahmin, a Boston Brahmin, nephew of Pierpont Morgan and a true decadent. He lived in your city, Philippe, died in the arms of his mistress, the Fire Princess, at the Hotel Des Artistes in New York City, a double suicide. On the sole of his left foot they found a tattoo of our Savior Jesus Christ on the cross. So if any of you feel as if you are a decadent, as some of our young Southern gentlemen are wont to do, feeling the weight of their bloodlines, you all have a long way to go. What are you still doing here, you dwarves, you dreadful onanistic small-timers? Can't you see that I am walking with the ghosts of the great? Philippe's voice: French was the bridge on which April and I met. In many ways she was even more of an outsider than me because I could at least go back to Paris, but where was she going to go with her books, her correspondence courses and her dreams except to a country that hadn't yet been made and is even today far from finished? Take aimer-- "to love." Plus-que-parfait-- j'avais aimé. I had loved? Exactly. And now for the conditionnel passé. J'aurais aimé. I would have loved? Oui. J'aurais aimé Philippe, but all we did was study French. What else did you have in mind? I don't know. I'm very surprised some Southern belle hasn't thrown herself into your arms. They run from me. You're meant to chase them. I only want to chase you. So chase me. ( laughs ) What? What? Why are you laughing? How long have you been driving? Since this afternoon. Cal is playing Clemson. He won't be back until tomorrow. Cal? The golden boy you showed up with the other night. Golden boy? I want to be with you, ma petit prince. Mon prince. "Ma" is feminine, "mon" is masculine. Okay, mon prince, this will be far enough. When will I see you again? Never. ( both laugh ) How about Monday same time? D'accord. ( car approaching ) ( men chattering, blues harmonica playing ) Who are those guys? That's the blues coming by. April, sometimes you lose me. They're musicians. They play the blues-- you know, devil music-- at the Jook. What's the Jook? The Jook is one place a French boy should never go. You hear me? You go home and you keep yourself safe for me till Monday. Philippe's voice: Devil music, Jook's, the blues-- she might as well have waved that red cape in front of me. I was at that blissful age where bad things only happen to other people. Mm, wow. ( rock music playing ) ♪ Keep a-knocking but you can't come in ♪ ♪ You keep a-knocking but you can't come in ♪ ♪ Keep a-knocking but you can't come in ♪ ♪ Come back tomorrow night and try it again ♪ ♪ You said you love me but you can't come in ♪ ♪ You said you love me but you can't come in, whoo ♪ ♪ You said you love me but you can't come in ♪ ♪ Come back tomorrow night and try it again, wow! ♪ ( blues music playing ) Woman: Oh, I thought we were gonna see Howlin' Wolf. Man: Baby, I just want to show you something. Hello. Whoa whoa whoa. Are you looking for something, white boy? Yes, I would like to see the show. ( chuckles ) Wait right there. Just wait right there. - I have money. - Just wait. What the fuck do you want? I am terribly sorry, but I thought it might be possible to listen to the music. You ain't from here, are you? No, but I can pay. I wouldn't let you in this place if you paid me $100. Hell, if something happened to a white boy like you, I gots the sheriff's all over my ass and he shut me down. You dig? - Yes, I understand. - White boy. - Hey, boy. - Uh-oh. - Coming to the coon show? - Yes, - Fucking college boy. - I'm not a college boy. I am French. Hey, you ain't going nowhere. I'm not a redneck. I am not a Southern gentleman. I am French. Leave the goddamn boy alone! Are you French? Yes, sir. Paris. Oh, yeah? Paris, huh? We've played Paris before. The folks treated us real nice. I met this little fine young thing over there. Her name was Edith, you know. Just a little itty bitty thing, but she could sing, - couldn't she, Sonny? - Yeah, man, yeah. So tell me, what does this thing get up to? Pardon? How fast does she go? Oh, as fast as you want to. ( both laugh ) This kid is all right. Yeah, you came all the way from Paris to see the show? Yes, but they won't let me in. Oh, that's your backwoods for you. Yeah, see, now if you was in Chicago that wouldn't happen. That's where we're from. See, Chicago is a wide open town where everybody digs the blues. Man, these folks have been down so long, fear's their daily bread. But you-- you're coming in with us. Come on. Come on. Come on. I thought I told you to get! This here kid-- with us. Not in my joint, he ain't. Listen up, motherfucker, now it's one thing I got to play in your motherfucking joint and look at your fat fucking ugly face all night long while I know that you are ripping me off at the gate, but you see this kid here? This kid right here is coming in with us. And if anybody's got a problem with that, well, we can just step on around to the side-- you, me and my little friend here-- and we can work this out the Chicago way. Come on, kid. ( blues music playing, people cheering ) He's cute, ain't he, the white boy? - Girl, you look so cute tonight. - Thank you. Ugh, a white boy. Man: Ladies and gentlemen, the man y'all been waiting for, Mr. Howlin' Wolf! Give it up for him! ( cheering ) ( playing a blues song ) ( people cheering ) ♪ If you're long way from home ♪ ♪ Can't sleep at night ♪ ♪ Grab your telephone, something just ain't right ♪ ♪ That's evil ♪ ♪ Evil's going on and on ♪ ♪ I'm warning you, brother ♪ ♪ You better watch your happy home ♪ ♪ Well, you're long way from home ♪ ♪ Can't sleep at all ♪ ♪ You know another mule is kicking in your stall ♪ ♪ That's evil ♪ ♪ Evil's going on ♪ ♪ I'm warning you, brother ♪ ♪ You better watch your happy home ♪ ( playing harmonica ) Mr. Howlin' Wolf sent this to you. ♪ Oh, something's wrong ♪ ♪ In your home ♪ ♪ Yeah, you better check it out ♪ ♪ Well, if you call her on the phone ♪ ♪ And she answers awful slow ♪ ♪ Grab the first thing smoking if you have to hop on ♪ ♪ That's evil ♪ ♪ Evil's going all wrong ♪ ♪ I am warning you, brother ♪ ♪ You better watch your happy home. ♪ ( playing faster ) This next tune is for our little friend. He came all the way from Paris to hear us play. We have somebody special gonna do it for you, my main man Sonny Boy Williamson! ( crows cheering ) ♪ Come here, baby ♪ ♪ Sit down on daddy's knee ♪ ♪ Come here, baby ♪ ♪ Sit down on daddy's knee ♪ ♪ Got something to tell you ♪ ♪ Sure is worrying me ♪ ♪ I cry cry cry ♪ ♪ All night long ♪ ♪ I cry cry cry ♪ ♪ All night long ♪ ♪ I'm crazy about you, baby ♪ ♪ But you know you done me wrong. ♪ ( muttering ) ( distant train whistle blowing ) Are you gonna be okay to drive, boy? Yeah, we'll drop you. No no, thank you. I have to drive this car back. You be careful. This time of night everybody's a nigger around here. ( laughing ) Thank you. Thank you. You showed me magic tonight I will never forget. ( man vocalizing ) ( singing along ) ♪ Love love me, darling, come and go with me ♪ ♪ Please don't send me 'way beyond the sea ♪ ( siren wailing ) ♪ I need you, darling ♪ ♪ So come go with me... ♪ Merde. ( keys jingle ) Man: What can I tell you, doc? The boy was doing 73. And unless I'm mistaken, he had more than a few beers in him. Now what I'd like to know is, where do you reckon that boy got them beers at this hour of the night? Sheriff McLain, may I take this opportunity to make a small contribution to your reelection campaign? ( chuckles ) One-- you're going to do yard work for me till you pay off this debt. I usually pay my boys 50 cents an hour. Two-- you're grounded. I've been watching you for quite a while and I have come to the conclusion that there is something wrong. I do not know what it is and I do not intend to find out. Come closer. Closer closer. At two inches I begin to see. I'm going to say something very simple and very fundamental, and it is this-- don't spoil it. Don't spoil your semester. This is an interlude of inestimable value. What you are experiencing here is priceless. Don't be the Hamlet of the freshman dorm. ( distant train whistle blowing ) ( panting ) I'm grounded. Cal won't lend me his car anymore. Sorry I'm late. But if you're grounded, what are you doing here? I had to see you. You did that for me? Of course. I love you. ♪ You looked at me ♪ ♪ With kindness in your eyes ♪ ♪ You took me by surprise ♪ ♪ You turned my world around ♪ ♪ I never knew ♪ ♪ That there would come ♪ ♪ A day ♪ ♪ When love would feel this way ♪ ♪ And turn my world around ♪ ♪ Although I know that we belong ♪ ♪ In two different worlds ♪ ♪ I can't help believe ♪ ♪ Our love will make us ♪ ♪ Stronger every day ♪ ♪ If tomorrow comes ♪ ♪ And takes you away from me ♪ ♪ I'll take that chance ♪ ♪ To be with you ♪ ♪ When I'm with you ♪ ♪ Time will be on our side ♪ ♪ Forever ♪ ♪ As long as we're together ♪ ♪ You turn my world ♪ ♪ Around. ♪ You're crying? Why? Why be sad when this is such a happy thing? Because I'm gonna lose you to some belle, some girl with blonde hair. Cherie, I'm not interested in those stupid girls. And they are not interested in me. I only love you. For you I'll risk everything. Can't you see that, ma petite reine? I'm your little queen? Yes. You're the queen of my heart. I'm going to take you to Paris where things are different. And we'll marry. That's nonsense. It's never gonna happen. I like you. You're different. I like the way you talk and you're gentle, but it's all it is. It's all it's ever gonna be. You and I come from very different worlds. No. You and I-- we are from the same world. The wind blows in our face the same way. And the sun shines in your face and in my face the same way. The rain makes us both wet. You are not from Mars and I'm not from the moon. Say my name in French. Avril, mon coeur. Mr. Leclerc. Mr. Leclerc. Mr. Leclerc, I have decided for the sake of my garden and for my own mental health to find another assignment for you more in keeping with your talents, meager though they might be. ( all chattering, crowd cheering ) ( groans ) My leg, man. I can't-- I can't-- All right, come on. Coach: Straighten out. Straighten out there. Hi, Cal. Great game. Yeah, sure. What's the matter with your kicker? The asshole tried to kick the ball out of the stadium. Now he's got a groin pull. What's a groin pull? It's exactly what it sounds like, Phil. It means he's out for the season. All right, look, next week we got our biggest game, Alabama Tech, okay? I mean, their defense is good-- really good. You hear me talking? It means I can't get 'em in the end zone, it's gonna come down to a field goal again. We're gonna be trying out kickers all week. It's gonna be a nightmare. Oh, I see that Faulkner is lecturing at Washington and Lee. - Are you interested? - Absolutely. Good. I think you and-- I think you and Sue Ann should cover that. Philippe's voice: The last time I saw Sue Ann she was a slightly dizzy belle who I tried to kiss in the back of a car. Now she had reincarnated herself into a journalist. But then again, at that age we tried on personalities like other people try on clothes. What are you reading? "Absalom, Absalom!" Ah, the son of David. Faulkner. Look, this conversation is pointless. by a kind of boredom or embarrassed, as if he was wondering what in the world he was doing in front of all these strangers. He exuded the kind of suave patience He spoke only for the front row and I doubted that most of them even heard him. But if Faulkner wanted to whisper, he'd earned that right as far as I was concerned. I'll never forget that handsome face his mouth moving like a sinner on his deathbed confession. I must admit I'm getting a little dizzy. You'll forgive me. He's-- he's so beautiful. ( laughing ) Sorry. Sorry. Look, the only reason I gave my hand to that girl is because she is sick. She's in psychoanalysis. On your couch? April, I only love you. I swear by all that is sacred to me. So you're telling me my eyes are lying? Your eyes are lying. No, they're not. I'll prove it to you. Well, Hans, what do you think about the quaint custom of Thanksgiving? Thank you, Joanne. It's wonderful. It's very nice. Do you have anything like it in Austria? No no. What is das? Das is a yam. How are your parents, Cal? They're fine, sir. Philippe's voice: You'd think that of all people Cal would have a place to go, but he didn't. His parents were alcoholics which made him kind of an orphan himself and gave him that edge of sadness that made him such a great guy. Pardon? Your parents. You do have parents, don't you, boy? Philippe: Yes, I do have parents. And they are fine. I just received a letter from them and also from my brother. He was a soldier in the Indochine. Indochina. I was in Indochina. It's a beautiful country. Very determined people, ( door opens ) No, Dominic, I don't have the magazine and I don't know where it is either. Maybe you should use your imagination tonight. What for? What for? What's Dominic got to use his imagination for? Oh, April, you are so cruel to me. Here. Happy Thanksgiving. Oh, April. Thank you, God. You ever had pumpkin pie before? Did you make it? No. I'm devouring you. It is you that I taste. Your hands have broken these eggs, touched this flour and puréed this-- this most interesting vegetable. And you came here to see me. Is it not incredibly dangerous? No. It's Thanksgiving. Forget it. I'm still angry with you. Why? Because of Sue Ann? She is so stupid. I always sleep with her. I mean, when I'm with her I go to sleep. She is so boring. Philippe, I have to tell you something. No no, please. One kiss for a poor orphan, all alone on Thanksgiving. What's French for "kiss"? Bisou. Un bisou. That's French for "kiss"? Yes, un bisou is a French kiss. Well, maybe you'd better give me one of those. ( Cal cheering ) ( Cal cheering ) Hey, Phil. Phil, let's go for a ride, little buddy. Where is everybody? Oh, I forgot. With mommy and daddy for turkey. Well, fuck all y'all! 'Cause I'm a Southern belle. As long as what? As long as he keeps winning games. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Cheers. ( shouting) Yes, sir! We're gonna beat Alabama Tech, sir! Hey, Phil... where are you, buddy? Where is everybody? Hi, Philippe. Did you have a nice Thanksgiving? Yes. Yes. And you? Did you go back to Wallatoona? Wallatoona? Yes, where you live. Oh, sure. It was grand-- grand. Did you finish "Catcher in the Rye"? Yes. I'm-- I'm gonna see you this afternoon. Philippe. Philippe. Are you afraid of me? Philippe's voice: If only it hadn't rained that afternoon. If only I hadn't sheltered Sue Ann with my coat. If only, if only... Jennings: "The silhouette of a moving cat wavered across the moonlight, and turning my head to watch it, I saw that I was not alone-- fifty feet away a figure had emerged from the shadow of my neighbor's mansion and was standing with his hands in his pockets regarding the silver pepper of the stars. Something in his leisurely movements and the secure position of his feet upon the lawn suggested that it was Mr. Gatsby himself, come out to determine what share was his of our local heavens." We don't seem to be holding your attention, Mr. Cate. Well, it's just a bunch of Yankee talk to me. Oh, it's just a bunch of Yankee talk? What do you think, Philippe? Pardon? You'll have to excuse our French friend today, sir. See, it's my considered opinion that his mind is on other things. Oh, all right. Let us move on to matters less controversial then, shall we? Something romantic? Romantic? Romantic. Ah, here we go. Lord Byron. Ooh, mad, bad and dangerous to know. Yeah, you identify with that, don't you, Cal? It's my family's motto, sir. I'm sure it is. Now... - this here poem... - ( door slams ) ...is called "When We Two Parted." Excuse me. You know where it is by now. Does anybody have anything else that they need to do before we begin? No? Good. This is a story of a passionate love affair... - April. - ...come to a painful and premature end. "When we two parted In silence and tears, Half broken-hearted To sever for years, Pale grew thy cheek and cold, Colder thy kiss; Truly that hour foretold Sorrow to this." Go away. "The dew of the morning Sunk chill on my brow-- It felt like the warning Of what I feel now. Thy vows are all broken, And light is thy fame: I hear thy name spoken, And share in its shame." - Mrs. Jennings: April. - Yes, ma'am. Where is that green bowl? Jennings: Honey, for crying out loud, I'm trying to read here. Mrs. Jennings: I'm sorry. "They name thee before me, A knell to mine ear; A shadow comes o'er me-- Why wert thou so dear? They know not I knew thee, Who knew thee too well: Long, long shall I rue thee, Too deeply to tell. Jennings and April: In secret we met-- In silence I grieve, That thy heart could forget, Thy spirit deceive. If I should meet thee After long years, How should I greet thee? With silence and tears." You two know each other? No, we don't. I need that green bowl. Jennings: Now this poem was published in 1816-- the same year that Byron left England, never to return. He was, as I'm sure you recall, divorced rather scandalously, so this was probably a goodbye to some forbidden lover. Well, Phil, all I can say is you missed one hell of a poem. Philippe's voice: I looked for my April, but she vanished in December. She left her job at the Jenningses and the Baptist minister hadn't seen her either. Hey, bubi, want to play? Good. ( muttering ) Argh! Hans: Good. Wunderbar. ( all grunting ) All right, right here, Mr. Cate. Here you go. All right, now go easy, Hoss. It's consistency we're looking for. Capisci? Great shot! Do it again. ( growling ) Hey! Hey! Hike. ( grunts ) Philippe. Hey, Philippe. Run, boy, run! Put some heat under it. Let me ask you a question-- you think you can do that with 11 assholes from Alabama Tech looking to rip your leg off? I can do it with my left foot too. Okay, go get yourself a number. Pardon? You just made the team, Frenchy. Go on. Go on. ( cheering ) Yeah, Frenchy, you made the team! Anyway, listen, this alumni says to me, he says, "Hey, Cal, if you beat Alabama Tech you got yourself a brand new Caddy... convertible." Hi, Cal. Hi, Philippe. Hi, Sue Ann. There's a girl to see you. She's downstairs. April. I came to say goodbye. John Patrick Baldridge, Elizabeth's father. I told them you were a Marquis. Elizabeth? Oh, monsieur, we're taking our daughter back to Boston. Much to our surprise, we find that she is seriously ill. Ill? Oh, the unspeakable things she's been reading. He has a black mistress. Mr. Baldridge: As you see, Monsieur le Marquis, she is really very ill. Yes, I can see that. Mrs. Baldridge: She is incapable of meeting the challenges awaiting her-- challenges we have devoted all of our love and experience to prepare her for. Love? Mommy, did you say love? ( laughing ) Love? Philippe's voice: My God, her name was Elizabeth, not Sue Ann-- just another square peg trying to fit into a round hole till there was nothing left of her but splinters. Philippe: Excuse me. I haven't seen her. I know, I know, but just the smallest of messages... I can't do that. Now I can only guess at your relationship. Not only is it wrong in the eyes of God, but, son, it's dangerous. I know. Yes, you're right, I'm sure, but if you could just tell her that I'm playing against Alabama Tech tomorrow. You? Oh, dear Lord, help us. I'm just a kicker. But please please, after this game my semester is over and I have to go back to Paris. Hey, son, kick some 'Bama butt. ( cheering ) 33 red on two. One, two, ready? What the hell? He's calling his own damn play! He's calling his own play out there! ( grunting ) Cover me, cover me, cover me. ( crowd booing, whistle blows ) ( players cheering ) All right, you bunch of candy asses, get your butts over here and listen up. And I mean now. Move it, move it. Boys, what do you think's gonna happen if we don't win this football game, huh? Nothing. Well, you'll be disappointed, but then you'll go home for Christmas. But for me and my wife, my boy Cody and my little Elizabeth-- we're not gonna have any Christmas. They're gonna fire my ass. Yes, sir. So while you're around your Christmas tree, opening your presents with your family, I'm gonna be trying to explain to Cody why he's not gonna get that bicycle he's counted on all year and why there's a sign in our front yard that says "For Sale" instead of a snowman. Jane and I will be packing up the last couple of crates and my little girl's gonna come down the stairs in her jammies and she's gonna say to me, "Daddy, why do we have to leave? Boys, I'm gonna tell her the truth like I always do. I'm gonna say to her, "Darling, there was a group of young men, fine young men, brave young men, talented young men who when the chips were down-- they just threw in the towel. And the shame is, they were good. I mean, they were real good. They were this close to being the very best, but they threw in the goddamn towel." Let's kill the bastards! Philippe's voice: Much later I learned that Coach Mallard was and always had been a confirmed bachelor. ( band playing, crowd cheering ) Announcer: And now they're coming back for the second half. So let's hear it for the ASU Rebels! Anybody lays a hand on him, and you're gonna be the new altar boy. You understand me? Now you get out there and you tear it up. Go go go! Announcer: It's third down and nine to go. Can they do it? Jack's open, coach. It's third down. We're running it. Come on, coach. It's wide open. I can get it there. Just trust me. Okay, call your own damn play. Philippe. Hey, Frenchy, come here. How are you feeling, Frenchy? - Fine. - That's good. Down, set, hut! ( whistle blows ) Time out. Time out. Kid, let's see what you're made of. Announcer: And with only seconds to go, they're bringing on their ace in the hole Philippe Leclerc to try for the field goal. You got it. Good luck. Save my ass, buddy. Time out. Time out. ( whistle blows, players groaning ) Player: Bring it in. Bring it in. Another time out? They want you to think about it, Hoss. What's there to think about? ( players cheering ) Long enough for my man here to take a shot. ( rapid heartbeat ) ( whistle blows ) Base. Cal: Hut hut! Frenchy! Throw the ball! Frenchy! Throw the ball! Frenchy, throw it, throw it! Frenchy, throw the ball! Throw it, throw it! ( cheering ) ( band playing ) April! Put me down. Philippe's voice: This time she was truly gone. And at the end of the day, it wasn't because of Sue Ann or even the fact that I was a student and she a maid, no. We'd been thrown together for a brief moment two foreigners traveling side by side through this great and strange land called America. ( dance music playing ) But all I had to do to be accepted was to win a football game. For April it wasn't quite that easy. Congratulations. You were exhilarating out there today. I didn't know you had it in you. You have ice water in your veins, son, ice water. Thank you. ( girls giggling ) Come on, Cal. ( Cal laughing ) Okay, hey, easy. One at a time, girls. Cal. Hey, whoa, easy. Philippe: Now, almost 40 years later, I've come to realize that youth is a gift wasted on the young. I was too preoccupied with my role as the Hamlet of the freshman dorm to truly appreciate the friends I made in that semester in the Shenandoah Valley. Somehow I wasn't quite up to the grandeur of Cal Cate, the poetry of Zach, the tragedy of Sue Ann and, most of all, the passion of April. And now, like so many men who have taken more than they have given, I find myself standing on a mountain of glass, looking for the diamonds I threw away. ( train whistle blowing, crossing bells dinging ) ( train chugging ) Need a hand? Yes, please. No no, thank you. My daughter made me promise to give you this. April's voice: "Philippe, mon amour, my love is yours always. April." ♪ You looked at me ♪ Sir! ♪ With kindness in your eyes ♪ Philippe: Sir! ♪ You took me ♪ ♪ By surprise ♪ ♪ You turned my world around ♪ ♪ I never knew ♪ ♪ That there would come a day ♪ ♪ When love would feel this way ♪ ♪ And turn my world around ♪ ( Cal cheering ) ♪ Although I know that we belong ♪ ♪ In two different worlds ♪ ♪ I can't help believe ♪ ♪ Our love will make us ♪ ♪ Stronger every day ♪ ♪ If tomorrow comes ♪ ♪ And takes you away ♪ ♪ From me ♪ ♪ I'll take that chance ♪ ♪ To be with you ♪ ♪ You came to me ♪ ♪ Girl ♪ ♪ When I was all alone ♪ ♪ Alone, yeah ♪ ♪ So far away ♪ ♪ From home ♪ ♪ You turned my world around ♪ ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ ♪ When I'm with you ♪ ♪ When I'm with you ♪ ♪ Time will be on our side ♪ ♪ Forever ♪ ♪ As long as we're together ♪ ♪ You'll turn my world ♪ ♪ Around ♪ ♪ When I'm with you ♪ ♪ Girl ♪ ♪ You turn my world ♪ ♪ Around. ♪