Transcript for Rhythm & Blues (2000) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (radio chatter) - [Voiceover] Send any light vessel automatic, south, southwest four. 11 miles. 1,020 falling slowly. (intense operatic music) Five miles, 1,021 steady. Semi automatic, southwest three, eight miles. 1,019, rising slowly. Viking, north mister, south mister. Southerly veering westerly. (dramatic music) - [Voiceover] Seen any glory? - [Voiceover] A few rainy nighters, but it's not a pretty sight out there. - Give it here, quit hogging it. But as far as I'm concerned they've ruined the cemetery. - [Voiceover] Who? - Oh this load of rampant sex-crazed perverts and voyeurs of course. (dramatic music) Uh, where are the Brillo pads when you need them? - Graveyards aren't what they used to be. - Nothing is. (dramatic music) Another DMT please Bobbi. (liquid pouring) (dramatic music) - [Bobbi] Mm. He's pure gold. - [Pale Man] Copper dear, that's what she is. (dramatic music) (steady beeping) - [Voiceover] BBC News at two o'clock. Dole's Court was the scene of another gruesome crime, when police discovered the murdered body of 45 year old stockbroker in his home early this morning. The victim was last seen leaving a gay night club with a male escort. This is the second murder of its kind in a week, and police fear this may be the work of serial killer who has targeted members of London's gay community. Police are cautioning middle-aged gay men not to rely on the kindness of strangers. (dramatic music) (man shouting) (scooter motor humming) Oh my god look who's coming. - Oh my god it's Byron. (Byron laughing) - Yeah tosser! (dramatic music) (footsteps crunching) (Byron coughs) You grave robbing par. Ss, hey. Oi, the living dead over there fancy the ass off ya. And you are London. Here, Byron. Huh, anyway look, the crinklies over there were just speculating on what you were doing here, you know what I'm saying? - No. - Come on, all you gotta do is look around ya. I mean you're not stupid, you know what most of the guys down here are into. - Yeah. Yeah I know what most of these guys here are into. So what? - You look like the kinda guy that isn't gonna miss an opportunity. You know what I mean? It's like if some guy was to offer you money to, you know. - How much money you talking about? - Well that depends on the way you play it right? I mean, you could work on your own on the street. Or, you could call an agency, or you could start with a couple of big time regulars, oh fuckin' hell you could do all three at once man, you'd make a packet doing it that way. - Yeah? And what would you know about making money mate? - Me? - What would you know? Money? - Oh come on man I'm wearing these 'cause I was painting the patio, all right? I've got 10 Armani suits back at the ranch. Besides, want some partners that like it rough. Look, last night right? Last night, I came home with 200 quid and a gold Rolex right? - Yeah, what'd you have to do for it? - All I had to do was to stand over this geezer with balloons. Ay, you know, like birthday party balloons right? Under my arms, and in between my fuckin' legs, and everything he had this thing for birthday party balloons. Probably came from some weird childhood sexual experience or something like that. Anyway look, I've got the balloons, I've got to stand over him and burst them and say, "Fuck you, "fuck you god damn fucking balloons. "I'm gonna burst the living fuckin' "shit out of ya." And he came, just like that. I didn't even have to touch him, right? I mean I had to you know stamp on hist stomach and stuff and pop a few of them on his stomach with my boots. But I didn't even touch him. - Yeah but look I mean it can't all be like that can it? - Fuck that shit, most of the guys I meet want to get roughed up, you know what I mean? I mean fuck all, bam. Lick my fuckin' boot you slimy piece of fuckin' horse turd. You fucking love it! And that's all there is to it right? So look, are you coming with me to the land of opportunity? Or are you staying here? (dramatic music) - Well what would you expect from a boy that meditates. - Can't let that poor boy fall into Byron's clutches, whatever his pawn shop for religion. Come on, come on, come on. - [Byron] What's your name? - [John] John. - [Byron] No it isn't, I can tell man right. (dog barking) (upbeat dance music) - Come on I want attitude, give me attitude. Move those bodies, work it boys, work it. This is showbiz. Robert kick high, not low. They won't wait for a darn second go go! Strut for mission's sake strut. Don't mince, you have no mincing please, no minced pie please. (upbeat dance music) Dewey no mincing, we're action men not far below. Now pull it, give it, this is your moment of glory. Unroll, unroll that banner. (upbeat dance music) My god. Well fuck me sorry. I mean don't the words flare commanding, post modernism mean anything to you? And you, Jimmy, you, the one I've pinned my hopes at, do you think that what I've seen here tonight is an adequate recompense for everything I put into you? I gave you better body movements than Jeff Striker, and what do I get in return? Liza Minelli in a sticky toffy pudding. - We're going to try harder Mitzi. - We're going to try harder Mitzi. You don't know what hard means that's why nobody calls for you anymore. Isn't that right Bethsheba? - Jimmy's demand has dropped by 30% in the last six months. - [Mitzi] You see what you can't understand is that we are the first entertain to get a fluke in the night. - Hello, Boys Galore escort agency where fun is safe and safety is fun. You can tell me. How do you know I'm a woman? - Big big money for all of us, got it? Gonna have a lie down. - Hello person, let your boys taking your all. - I'm looking through the two way mirror at the young men in the room. - [Bethsheba] You choose them by color, they're all color coded. (upbeat dance music) - Red, I think I want red. - Very well, I'll activate his pager. - But wait, I've had second thoughts. - You are permitted those. Second comings you're not allowed. - They've got fit fucking cool all the way otherwise we're finished right? Come on. Fucking hell. Hey, Mitzi! (banging on door) - [Mitzi] Come in! You are far. - Got some fresh beef. (doors slam shut) - Good afternoon. I'm Mitzi. This is my home. - [Byron] Afternoon Sheba! - This is the dance floor. So many memories. Come and see my friends. Balls balls ball. You'll find we're very very cozy here John. Boys, say hello to John. - Oi. - [Voiceover] How you doin'? - [Voiceover] All right. - Now come and see this get, I can promise you you've never seen this before. Cost thousands. It's my mirror. It's my pride and joy. It's two way you know. Mirror mirror on the wall, who is the fairest of them all. Isn't it comforting that the mirror always gives a different answer? - Yeah, I thought John might like to know a bit about terms of trade ya know? - Would you like to know more about shaming? What's he taken a trapper's vow? I mean silence is golden but really. - He's just saving his breath up right. - Oh. (doorbell rings) - Mitzi, that must be Bad Daddy and we desperately need a 15% boost in this month's takings. So remember, vintage champagne 117 pounds a bottle plus VAT. I have a pension plan to keep up. - Oh. More money more money, oh, buddy buddy buddy buddy buddy buddy. (heavenly orchestral music) Bad Daddy. (footsteps tapping) - Aw dear Nanny. - [Voiceover] BD. - How are you boy? - Oh in need of a firm hand. Yes well thank you BD. The caliber has been slipping ever since Mrs. Fletcher-- - [Mitzi] It's Bad Daddy boys. Player number one, interaction, time to display something. Get up, come on, move it. Get rid of these papers their sluts, we're talking-- - Ah, look at them, so pert and lively. Champagne for everyone. I wanna buy all their time for the next few minutes, I want to be looked after. And get that ghastly music off. Opera, I want to hear some opera. I always loved playpens. (Bad Daddy laughing) - Smile puppets. - I'm gonna be honest with you right, I'm gonna keep on the... (Byron mumbling) - Who is that wild-eyed novelty? - That's John, he's my newest discovery. Extremely talented though a childhood trauma has made him somewhat silently inclined but once you pop through that sound barrier you will find endless charm. - Mm, and endless cost no doubt. - Well he is a deluxe model so it's 500 plus VAT sunset to sunrise. - Kermit the Frog over there is dishing it out like he's won the lottery right? And he's got his froggy little eyes on you. Just remember who brought you here. - Hmm, I want to test drive him, my place, cocktails, the usual time. (calm operatic music) He is clean I assume. - Snow White. - Step it up too mate. Hello darling hello. - John, the gentleman over there. - No chance of him being that ghastly gay garroter fellow I've been reading about is there? - Don't know what you're talking about. - Oh yes you do, the tabloids have been calling him the Rent Boy Ripper I believe, ring any bells? - Bad Daddy you can't think I possibly, all our boys have been hand tested and scanned at least four weeks before we unleash, send them out. - That's what I was afraid of. Anyway, John looks extremely tasty. - [Bethsheba] I'm afraid we have a tiny hiccup. - Yes? - Well, you know that Johnny's new, and all the better for being so, and that he's also very shy. And he says he won't go without Byron. - What? That tired old boot boy, don't be ridiculous. No no no, I couldn't possibly, he's more trouble than he's worth. - There'd be no extra charge. - John promises that he will more than make it up to you later. - Yes, make it up to you later. - All right all right all right. I suppose I can find a spare body bag or something to put over him. (all laughing) Well. Now that the dirty deed is done, I'm off for a little shopping therapy down Knight's Bridge Way, bye bye boys. - [Voiceover] Bye bye. (men chattering) - [Bethsheba] You can wait outside. - It could be you. (Byron chuckling) - Would you like to step into the office? - Fuckin' bastards. (gentle operatic music) - This is a condom. Open it like this. And remove the little beast. - How's it going my man? (Byron mumbling) Muddy as a clown man. (gentle operatic music) - Cheers. - Like that, and roll it down. And voila. (gentle operatic music) (man mumbling) - Oh it's live, yeah. (gentle operatic music) (Mitzi gasping) - My thanks. - [Voiceover] My pleasure sir. - Now we come to the most difficult part. This is where as my gymnast used to say, "We go beyond mere technique." - You see John in order to be a truly caring and successful Boys Galore escort, you must understand that every client is a different perfect person in his head. - It is not only your job, but your mission to find out who that perfect person is and to become them for the time rented of course. - You must use your intuition, John. I mean some boys have it and some don't. - Quite. - I just know you can do it. - Just one question, why is he called Bad Daddy? - All our clients demand anonymity. Some are more theatrical than others, Bad Daddy is his stage name. Here is the address. - Hmm. Well, I'm all yours. (upbeat dance music) - I think Cupid's arrow could hit me again Bethsheba. - But it would have to be launched by a nuclear sub to get through your Gotye girdle dear. - Bitch. - I don't trust him. Don't show him our X files. (tense music) - Welcome to our court pal! Let's see if we can find you a nice high grade cock duster. There you are, you see that geezer in the Armani suit? He can charge 200 quid an hour and that's excluding ex trust. Stapled shit. You fuckin' bastard! He's taking all my business isn't he? See that rat face with the red silk scarf? You can make 100 at him just for fucking breathing him. Oh look, those boys, twins, gay fuckin' twins right? Their specialty's pissing, and they get to charge almost double just because of that. If only I had a gay twin I could be living in Mar Behr by now. You see her? She is a major fuckin' junkie queen. And an absolute tart! He's her boyfriend right? And he's her dealer as well but not today, not today pal. That's because she's a nasty little fuckin' thief! There's some more great hustlers in this town pal, but that guy's the pits. All right there Mr. Froggy! Don't listen to those fingers pal, they're lying bastards! Oi, check her out man. (dramatic music) (smooth jazz music) - Oh I love the sound of all these calories racing to my love handles. - You haven't got love handles BD. You've got landing strips. - The great thing about reaching a certain age, is that one isn't afraid of becoming a stereotype. Look, all these young men on these pages here are all hiding behind stereotypes. - They may be stereotypes to you BD, but I can't understand a bloody word. - Oh no it's all very simple, and so much safer Harold if you would use these pagers of papers, instead of always looking for love on building sites. For instance, easy going California looking blonde, with dream body. Means in fact Fay Filler from Wolver Hampton. His hair color comes out of a bottle, and will only screw for hard cash. - Oh money always money. It's so sad. - Why don't they just describe themselves in good old English prose. And where the hell is this boy you found at Mitzi's? I'm starving. - Rhythm and Blues are not clock watchers. I'll order some more. - Are you crazy? Don't you know there is a rainbow killer out there? - Don't be ridiculous JC these boys aren't murderers, besides, the papers say the Ripper is probably an army lad, who has a very creative way with razor blades. - No, don't you man of my dreams. - I suppose we'll have to. What were the dreams? - Well, a rent boys comes here, he is dressed in su-ris which is a very dangerous color by the way. Well, brings his present from Havanic's, we have great sex, and in the middle of the night he defenestrates us. Through that window there. (car rumbling) - Only one rule, never call Bad Daddy Burnie. He'll think you know too much. (bell ringing) - Oh at last. Children of the night. (Bad Daddy chuckling) - [Byron] It's just tapes of German shepherds. - Good day gentlemen, you are expected. - [Byron] Choice what, where's the boss? - He's... (bell ringing) - Ah! Afternoon boys, big bollocks is back. - Many call the groper. - You're late boys. Tardy rabbits may find they only get lettuce. - Oh ignore the beast, his bark is worse than his biting. Jonas the good towel, they are my invention. - What's in them? - It's just something which teenage girls like. - Right, Luch, get me a real drink, a whisky. So good to be a real man again. (Byron coughing) - Just before you arrived I was about to pontificate to my oldest friend Harold, and Jean-Claude my long term live in companion on the subject of rent boys. Or Rhythm and Blues as I prefer to call it. - I see not. - Naturally not, we now live in the world of personal escorts. (knife smacks) - Oi, Kung Fu Queen! - I like to think that every meal che mois has a certain educative element. - Master Bouqui told that stranger. What hair gel do you use? - [Voiceover] It's new, it's called Eye. - Oh very new. - Now, to return to rent boyhood. Listen both of you, and learn. This is especially for you you boy. That other one is beyond redemption. There are many advantages to the rent boy life. Young men of no obvious distinction can meet for example, artists and writers, many of whom include Rhythm and Blues in their work. This allows the more talented of the R and B fraternity to rise above the floats and the jetsam of every day life. And there experience a deep, rich, almost aquatic world. Beyond the realm of paupers and choppers. - No need to be grabby old man. Paul Barn hasn't eaten for some time. - Now John, you must remember that historically many people who have how shall I put this? Leased their cuddley qualities have become immortal. I mean who remembers Charles the Second's daughter? Ah, but we all remember Nell Wynn. Rhythm and Blues like rat catchers or croupielles or acid strippers like myself. We are the really useful people. We lubricate the wheels of art, science, truth and beauty. We are collectively the baby oil of western civilization. - I know you drag queen. - Oh don't worry about old Jean-Claude, he thinks everybody who comes here is after his emeralds and pearls. - Oh you can laugh Harold, but Aveda would die for my collection. - Aveda is dead. - And not from me. (fist slams) - That's enough! You seem to have forgotten that I was pontificating. Do you see the Pope interrupted in St. Peter's Square? Well just remember this is my St. Peter's Square. (lively jazz music) (dog growling) (dramatic music) - How do I teach you did it to me. This doesn't fucking work I hate your guts, I really do! (upbeat rock music) - Oh my god. - Disgusting. (Mitzi groans) (upbeat rock music) (zipper zipping) (whip cracks) (chains rattling) They're for our John. - Let's see how our John test drives before we rubber him up. - I'm sure he won't let us down he's a Rolls-Royce. - Maybe, but for now he's just an escort. Come on, we have work to do. Shift your bottom. All of them. - I wish I could. (upbeat rock music) (Bethsheba hisses) ♪ I tried chocolate ♪ I tried fashion ♪ And neither could satisfy my passion ♪ I don't want it for free (brakes squealing) - Load the cart please Ms. B. Thank you. (register beeping) - Another one of your tasteful window displays I see. - I'm afraid I'm not at liberty to talk about it. My lips are sealed. - Why break the habit of a lifetime? (phone ringing) - Oh, you're very tested qualifying for our free weekend trip to Romania to attend the Euro Boys Gay Cheerleading finals. - One is holding one's breath. (man sobbing) - Come on Ambrose. You can tell Uncle Mitzi. Is it a man? - No. No you'll all find out. Soon enough. (Ambrose sobbing) Poor turkey. 85 pounds and seven pence please. (register dings) - What's the big statue? In the middle there? - Roman wrestlers 1st Century worth about 100,000. - It's hardly a lava lamp is it? - For god's sake don't name the prices. - Psychedelic crap. - Bridget Riley. - Utter crap that woman. First painter to cause eye injuries. (laughing) - Well, it's amazing where you can get if you save up enough stamps isn't it? - Come, John. Sit by me, and gaze upon Nebuchadnezzar and all his works. Fry in the ma'lavita of Rhythm and Blues. - Oh that's typical. Show off to the end. - [Bad Daddy] That's rich coming from someone who's been modeling Brazilian cheerleader outfits for the last 10 years. (Byron coughing and gagging) - Oh my god. - Fuckin' hell. Right, gotta piss. (Byron belches) - Fascinating. - Sister it's watch that boy. I have a bad feeling about him. I wouldn't be surprised if he were you know who. - I can handle myself. I served in my regiment in northern Ireland. - You fell in love with a terrorist over there. Remember that scandal? - He was an innocent. (tense music) ♪ Save me save me ♪ Bow down ♪ I'm flying away oh dear (footsteps thudding) - [Voiceover] Excuse me Henry, but I must prepare the trays. - [Voiceover] Rather busy evening sir? - Oh I don't know where all this is going to end. But it's not just Bad Daddy, look at Howard too. They've got addicted to rent boys. I think their lies should be more about love than lust. - [Voiceover] I thought Bad Daddy got an RB dot sir. - Oh, he promised, he promised. Only one a week he said. Ah look at right. Already one, and there will be more. - [Voiceover] The cost of some of the items you are serving there has certainly gone up. - Bad Daddy is not a careful sister. And it's probably my money that he's spending. - Quite so sir. Should I prepare something for an all nighter then? - Mm, yeah. But please don't forget, lock the Vetach and paint away. I don't ever want to see Californian surfers pouring my Dom Perignon off their butts again. (upbeat dance music) (knocking on door) - Almost time Mr. Smith. (knocking on door) Almost time Mr. Jones. (phone ringing) (knocking on door) - Almost time Mr. Smith. (knocking on door) It's almost time Mr. Jones. Phillip, you're late for your next assignment, get a move on! - Okay Shebby, I'll see what I can do. Yes, au revoir. Shit. Jean-Claude wants an escort immediately, preferably Australian. - Oh god. That means Bad Daddy's gonna want one in about an hour. You know how competitive these couple queens are. - Don't winge about our money overs. Anyway, all our regulars are booked. So we have a problem. - I've got three new boys waiting upstairs for an interview. - [Bethsheba] Perfect. - [Mitzi] David isn't it? - That is correct. - [Bethsheba] Good, now tell us why you want to become an escort. - No before that Bethsheba, tell us where you heard about us. - [David] I saw your advert in Star Dew Lake. - Yes. Now, tell us why. - Well, I uh will not ignore the obvious, financial reasons. But I have to tell both of you that I also believe passionately in gay liberation. And on gay liberation grounds I believe that handsome men like myself have a moral duty to enhance the lives of less physically or chronologically fortunate gay men. (Mitzi laughing) - You're a gay activist aren't you? Well I'm all for that myself, as long as it doesn't get out of hand of course. I mean, mooning at the queen for example. - I'm afraid I'll regard the monarchy as part of a decadent homophobic neofaschist state. Much worsened by the long years of Thatcher-ite Tory rule. What's the monarchy done for any of us? - That's all very well but the client we're thinking of assigning you to is not only a reigning queen himself, but also a raging Windsor soupy groupie. - Uh oh, I'm afraid I won't work alongside neoconservative queens. It's a bit like being a Nazi jew. - Well, I admire your principles enormously. (Mitzi chuckles) - Don't call us, we'll call you. (upbeat dance music) - I'm not afraid to stand up for my principles. - My god. This younger generation they're so prissy. Live and let live, that's what I say. - Couldn't possibly send that dreadfully PC thing to JC, my god he'd scream the roof down. Next. (calm rock music) - Well laddies. - [Voiceover] Perfect. ♪ Come onto my casting couch ♪ And be my movie star ♪ Come out of my video ♪ I've loved you from afar ♪ How I've played your money shots ♪ On replay and of course ♪ Come into my movie house ♪ And baby magazines - [Voiceover] Saint Sebastian be. (shotgun cocking) - Now this gun's a bit more natural. - You see dear, it's a boy we're looking for. - There's a boy inside me. - They charge for the real thing? - [Both] We'll give it a try! - [Voiceover] Open wide. (calm rock music) - You see my dear, our gentlemen prefer boys. - Well nobody's perfect. - This escort agency is called Boys Galore, not Boobs Galore. - [Voiceover] You know what rabbits do best. ♪ All of me ♪ Why not ♪ In all of you - That's gonna cost you. Thank you. - It's Roger isn't it? He's from Belfast Bethsheba. Where so many of our nicest and most successful boys come from. Belfast boys are very good to their lovers. But there are so many of you. There must be a very naughty pink hormone knocking about that Irish Sea. - Yeah, I'm homosexual myself. - Yes well first question, why do you want to escort Roger? - Well, I've run out of money and I guess to be realistic, no one's gonna rent my brains are they? - Oh you're a big tease, I'm sure your IQ's as fantastic as the rest of ya. - How do you feel about being an escort to a very sweet but extremely loquacious French queen? - Is loquacious safe? - Absolutely. But there is a problem. Jean-Claude is very fond of Australians, now you certainly look the surfer, but can you do the accent? - You mean Australian? No worries Shela. - Now Roger, I want you to come with me to the next room and pretend I'm a client. - Mitzi sit down we haven't got time for that. - Bethsheba. - No ,Roger, will you wait outside? We have one more candidate to interview, but we will certainly have a job for you tonight. - I don't have to parlay francais do I? - No deary, English language will do very nicely, now Roger, smile. (camera snaps) - [Roger] G'day! - You don't think he's too intellectually challenged for JC do you? - JC can't have everything. He can't have a bit of rough and expect him to know who Jean Luc Godard is. - Right. Who is he? - Who? - Jean Luc Goodileegoc. - He's a pretentious frog who makes films aimed mostly up his own French backside. - He could do our corporate video. (Bethsheba chuckling) Now get the next one in we're running out of time. (goofy music) (Byron snorting) (metal tapping) (Byron snorting) - Look, I'm not saying you were right. You were wrong for serving in the British army right? But what I am saying, is it makes you more of what I would call a real man. - But you don't have to have served Her Majesty in order to be masculine. I think that you are very masculine, for example. - Yeah well, I may shag other men, that doesn't make me a pink ass poofter. Make 'em pay. I always make them pay. - What about affection Byron? What is your fashion word love? Now that's the thing which makes the world go around, still-- - Don't come with Julie Andrews on me right? I couldn't love anybody who wasn't a real man. - But what is a real man? - Don't be so fuckin' difficult. (Byron snorting) You're a real man. You've served the real queen. - Then why wouldn't you kiss me? - No no no no no no, you don't get it do ya? Me for hire, you buyer, I don't kiss the pinter yeah? Gotta save something for my personal life. - Do you have a special chappie? - What are you on pal? You mean a boyfriend? Yeah. I had one. Sweet. We were real close. The only person I ever trusted. - What happened? - He ran off with my sister. You got 50 quid on ya? - I thought Bad Daddy paid for you on the couch? - Yeah that doesn't include tips. - Oh. You know Byron, I understand that you have had a hard life, most of my callers did. They all came from broken homes. - Everything in my home is broken. (Byron snorting) - All right. It's Jason isn't it? Such a lovely name it's so classical. - Inevitably. Sit! South London and Overton I suppose? - Look lady, I wanna sell me ass not me accent. - Look child, I'm doing the interview so I decide what's relevant around this table not some jumped up Jason from nowhere. Check his arms Mitzi. (Jason laughing) - I like your style lady, my mom woulda liked to talk to me like that. She didn't know the words. Still love her though. - Boys who love their mothers, nice old brothers. He's all clean. - Little warning to you Jason, I like a boy who knows he's a phony. So here's the deal, how would you like to spend the night with a charismatic and generous, although fleshy and bossy client, with an insatiable sexual appetite and three nipples? - Is that caller if you got free wallets to match. - Yes, I think you'll do splendid with Bad Daddy. - Bad Daddy? He ain't a gangster is he? - Only in his own home videos dear. Now off you go, there's a car waiting to take you. - Oh Jason just a minute. Let's have a smilie face. (camera snaps) (upbeat dance music) I hate using new boys like this. Especially with that Ripper creature around. I mean, what if we by chance mischance hired the rent boy Ripper by mistake? - Don't be silly, these boys are perfectly fine. Besides we have no option. Oh don't you worry, you trust my gut instinct and we'll have that villa in Tuscany before your first big bypass. Now, I'm going to leave you to hold the fort, I'm off. - That's all right I owe you one. Oh, Bethsheba. - Yes? - I know what I'm gonna do in Tuscany, darling. What about you? (Bethsheba giggling) - That's my own special secret Mitzi darling. (tense music) (lively swing music) - Hello Henry. - [Voiceover] Good afternoon sir. I trust the young gentlemen was satisfactory. - Yes, perfect. He made me feel, as you can see, like Madame Butterfly. (Big Daddy chuckling) For that he can have some of the, oh vintage champagne. - Mr. Jean-Claude has forbidden me to serve the vintage sir. - Oh ignore that tight ass fairy. Just bring up six good bottles for me and John. (lively swing music) - Alas my theme tune. Oh thank you Henry. They say that cognac is the music of the damned. But there's nothing like cognac for soothing the heart. - Your heart doesn't need soothing Harold. It needs suspending for about 10 years. Oh I suppose you're in love with that screw ball Byron now. Bad news. - It's not love BD, it's a sense of affectionate responsibility. The British army teaches you that. However, I have to say, that although he may be fighting it I'm very much afraid that Byron is falling for me. - Oh don't be ridiculous my dear. Creatures like that don't fall in love. They lie, steal, cheat, break your heart and worst of all, they're hopeless at Rumptie Tumptie, hopeless. (calm music) (Jean-Claude mumbling) - I leave in a big sigh. - I think you mean pig sty. - Oh god, you can correct my English when you are paying the bills. Until then, just be a silent thing. - When did you first meet Bad Daddy? - Oh, about one million BC. We wore animal skins and they grew meat. It was before they killed us. - Bad Daddy still likes his meat raw, apparently. - Just get this straight, however big your dick is, however long your tongue is, however mother tear is I like your asses, this sisters is Bad Daddy's eternal lifelong live in numbero uno spouse, primates palimony monopolist. - It wasn't Bad Daddy I was thinking about, it was you. - What do you mean? - Well you're fun, you're sexy, but Bad Daddy doesn't seem to see all that. He makes fun of you even to me as if you're the rent boy's just man. - So you really think I'm sexy? - Mm, I thought that from the minute I first saw you. How have you kept your looks so well? - Oh, the secrets of the boudoir darling. - Bad Daddy talks of you as if you're some bimbo housewife. (lively music) - Well he has a dark side I'm afraid. But I'm trying so hard to have everything for him. Well it's not easy you know. You've got gifts and duchesses one night, tore a partition the next, and then rent boys. Well it can be very confusing. (Jean-Claude sobbing) I once got so mixed up I brought his tray with 20 lines of cocaine on it for the Minister of Defense. - What happened? - Well fortunately Bad Daddy's very quick, so he just rubbed the stuff all over the tray and said it was a wonderful polish. But he gave me hell for that afterwards. He actually cut all my marionette strings. (Jean-Claude sobbing) - Okay? - [Voiceover] Okay. - Eyes? - [Voiceover] Check. - Mouth? - [Voiceover] Check. - Lipstick? - [Voiceover] Check. - Boobs? - [Voiceover] Check. - Rain. - [Voiceover] Check. - Okay then, let's go live. A sour note for London sugar daddies. Yet another of their fraternity has been struck down by the serial killer nicknamed the Rent Boy Zipper. Top window dress sir Tony Angelo was found dead in the display case window behind me earlier this morning. Reliable sources say he was trapped in an uncomfortable position on top of a giant cactus. This is London Live Oscourt Road. - No Carol, we're gonna have to do that again. - What do you mean? Some bastard keep making faces behind me? - No you said Zipper, it's Ripper. - Shit. Okay let's go again. (tense music) (door opening) (water running) - Action stations. Oh damn. Out out damned spot. (John scatting) It's you. I was looking for Byron. - He's fine. He's eaten another pot of strawberry jam and he's trying to beat up a Roman statue. What about you? You look a bit tensed up. - Tense? Nonsense. Have you known Byron long? - 10 hours? Enough for three fist fights and three jars of jam. - JC thinks that he's the Ripper. - Byron? No, he hasn't quite got the concentration. Can you rub my back? - Your back looks quite clean to me. But then, I only bathe on Saturday nights. - Let's go ahead and, I'm new to your gang, but it seems to me that Bad Daddy treats you like his puppets. Puts his hand inside your brains and wriggles you around. - Oh no you're wrong, despite appearances, Bad Daddy is the one who keeps us all from jumping off the post office tower popping Prozac. You know, it was he that made me leave the army. As he said, "If they don't want faggots "in the foxholes, then let the straights take the bullets." - Well you know, Bad Daddy exploits people like me. I've never had a chance to go straight. My mum couldn't even afford a copy of the Highway Code. I think you're a bigger victim of Bad Daddy than Byron or me. - But you see dear chap I'm afraid that for me friendship is absolutely sacred. It's like the regimental colors. Or as that left poet William Blake said, "To the spider, his web, "to the bird his nest, "and to man, friendship." And Niche said, "Rebellion is the only virtue in a slave." - How the hell did you know that? - I told you, I study philosophy. - Swine. I didn't believe you. - I didn't ask you to. - Why did you give up philosophy for? - My mother pulled me out to join the family business. - What was that? - House clearances. That kind of thing. But I got bored. You know Harry, just 'cause I study philosophy, doesn't mean to say that I can't be as rough as Byron. If I'm with the right guy, once a south London yup always a south London yup. - We must have a proper chat later, when I'm a bit less addled up. (calm jazz music) (John sighs) - [Voiceover] We have to be smart here. (upbeat dance music) (car rumbling) (dogs barking) - This is not an addiction. This is a plague. (man mumbling) - You want to dance? - Oh no I'm sorry, I just can't dance at the moment, it is not a disco moment for me. (spray hissing) - What's a blow bag? (upbeat dance music) - Suck it and see. - [Voiceover] That is not an ashtray. That is an antique Brillo original. You won't be cool. (man screams) - [Voiceover] Hey, hey, can you do that again eh? Aw, all right. (Byron snorting) (upbeat dance music) (Byron grunting) (bird squawking) - [Voiceover] Come on my darlings, we have a big night tonight. - [Voiceover] Go outside that queen. Go outside. (upbeat dance music) - Listen up everyone, orgy's stopping, culture calling. Come children, out out out. Out out. Follow the pied piper to theater land. Out. (car door slams) - Where the hell is Byron? - Oh probably fallen in a jam jar. - Oh pity the jam. Oh do sit down Captain Ridiculous. - I've got a bad feeling about Byron. - Please sit down. Now, tonight's show is the world premiere of Garlands of Love, written produced and directed by Jean-Claude who also souffled up the costumes. So take your seats my bittersweets and let the show begin. (clapping) (gentle accordion blowing) - Oh a death already. This is worse than Hamlet. - So, you are dead. The greatest fashion designer in the 20th Century. You have walked down your last catwalk, where you are now, there are no Gucci shoes, no Calvin Kleins, no Cartilles jewels. - And no Louie Pierre. - [Henry] Louie Pierre. You were his greatest protege, but I have not seen you cry. - I cannot tell you why. It is for the same reasons I wore these clothes today. This color is called rebel rose. (gentle accordion blowing) You all certainly cry, why? - [Henry] I cannot tell you why. - Tight lipped these puppets. - [Jean-Claude] Perhaps we share a dark and terrible secret. - [Henry] What do you mean? - [Jean-Claude] Well what he did to me at night had nothing to do with couture. - You mean he abused you? - Even on the catwalk. - [Henry] And you were so young, so French. - Bit close to the bone isn't it? - Sadly not my funny bone. - [Henry] Now I feel I have a confession I must make. (ominous tone) Is like a forcefield. - Mind the carpet I cleaned, mind the carpets. - What about me! Never mind those fuckin' poofter puppets, what about me? - By god it's the theater critic for The Times. - Oh my god. - I'm gonna shave myself all over, then I'll be as smooth as Keanu Reeves. Shit! - Put those razors down! Now listen to me Byron old thing, your mother wouldn't want you to do any of this. - That cow hasn't spoken to me since I burnt her house down. - All right, all right, we've all been through bad times. Even Her Majesty has had bad days. The important thing to remember is that we all love you. - He doesn't love me! Oh Bad Daddy is bad. - No I do love you in my own way. - Fuckin'! - Oh! - Shit! Have we got any more spray-- - [Harold] Just calm-- - Shit! - Now listen, I can help you. I've got a spare bedroom. It's got a CD player in it and a mini bar my sister built. - Why did your sister build a mini bar in the bedroom? - Be quiet. - Shit! - Not the checker vein! - I believe you mean the jugular vein. - Oh fuck 'em up we can get in the fuckin' satisfaction! - Now listen to me Byron old thing, don't want anymore scenes like that. - Oh don't faint mate, it's all over. - It's Byron it's Byron. He's the one I just know it. (dramatic music) (champagne pouring) - There you go Byron, a glass of champers. - Is that wise? - A glass of bubbles ends all troubles. - Come on Byron, butch up. - Are we allowed to stand of course after this drama, no one wants to continue with my world premiere. - Not at all manage. It'll help us forget Byron's little scenette. - Well I think that Byron was a little too upset for this. - So sit with him in the back row. That's where they usually put the highly strung. Can't hear a thing from there. - Every cloud has a silver lining. Come on Byron. - [Bad Daddy] Now, can we please get on with the show? - Well, what's gonna happen next? - Oh huge news of love I fear. - I think it's a play about sexual abuse in France. (gentle accordion blowing) - Well we'll continue from where we were stopped. By that sackety shit bag. - But you were so young, and so French. Now I feel I have a confession I must make. - [Jean-Claude] He abused you too? - [Henry] Yes, that's why I became a priest. He was afraid to lift my cassuc. It was like a force field around. - Well the force field didn't drive away lust. It drove away love too. - What do you mean? - I can tell you what I wanted to tell you. Ever since I gave you that... (Jean-Claude mumbling) - No! No! No! He's not dead yet! We've got to kill the fucker with a wooden stake! (Byron screaming) - Well I can't perform in a road boat murder house. I can't and I won't. And I insist in the future we only have rent boys with drama degrees. (Harold breathing heavily) - My god, he's dead! - Can't be dead. - I've seen enough dead men to know. - There is no pulse, sir. - Stone dead? - Stone dead. Oh my god. How young he looks. - What the fuck we gonna do? - Not panic. It's a very tragic turn of events, but we mustn't let it ruin our lives. Byron is dead. R.I.P. - Cops? - Don't be ridiculous, this is not some cheap thriller. Henry. (parrots cawing) Byron is dead. I'm sad. I'm sorry. There will be tears, but we must face the fact. The last thing Byron was to drag us all down into some grotesque police inquiry. - I don't see where you're going to BD. - Well my solution is a simple one. Byron quite frankly gate crashed this party, ipso facto, he was not meant to be here. - What do you mean? - Well why don't we simply remove him to some place else where he was not meant to be? - Like where? - Well I don't know, a riverbank or a council estate. Dressed perfectly decently, he was out going for a walk and shooting up. - I ain't risking my ass taking him nowhere. - BD, I can't be a party to such a move. - Look, Bad Daddy's got a point. How are we gonna explain about letting him shoot up here? - We don't, we leave. Let's go. - Aw, come on Jason. - Ah Jason, how wise. When the going gets rough, the rough get going. Silence is golden. Auf wiedersehen my puppies. - G'day. - Where are those two going? They're merely material witnesses. - Oh take a reality pill darling. They're material girls. - We have to call for the police and the doctor. - Wait! Now I know we have a tragedy here in the shape of Byron Burtwissle, but really I must think of all of you. - Sir. (Jean-Claude sobbing) - John, I am starting to see what you mean. God I thought BD was better than this. - No, he isn't. - JC, we have to confront BD. - Oh I know. - Now's your chance to break free. - There will be a bonus in this for you. Shit. No sex tonight. - BD, I have followed you through thick and thin, but lately you've become too cold. You put style before love. - My god I hope so. (slap thwacks) - Stop it, stop it! Are we to be all over for this? If I died, would you dump me in the sewage tunnel? - Don't answer that BD. BD you have rather sickened me tonight. You have all the worst aspects of the Wizard of Oz. I thought that you were a wise and great ruler, but you are nothing more than a selfish sod behind a megaphone. - Look, I'll pay for his burial. He can have Voltaire's ivory casket. - Well I am going to. I may never come back. We must be punished. - Oh, don't be ridiculous. What am I gonna do with 27 satinent rings? - Just finish them. ♪ Rhythm and blues ♪ Coming to light in your trouble and pain ♪ Breaking my heart ♪ Well I know I will see you again ♪ (siren blaring) ♪ And again ♪ You're my small eyed angel ♪ Professional friend ♪ A doctor's prescription ♪ And my heart to mend (siren blaring) - I've seen so many young men stretched out like this. You know, the original baron wrote a few words which I feel I'd like to quote now as a kind of farewell. He walks in beauty like the night, of cloudless climbs and starry skies, and all that's best of dark and bright, meet in his aspect and his eyes. (sobbing) - It's so beautiful. I am Buddhist too, and I am supposed to kill nothing. Nothing even nuggets. - No, I think you mean maggots of fruit. (upbeat dance music) (keys jingling) (ominous music) (upbeat music) (door creaking) - [Voiceover] Yes? Oh it's the PC sindito. Sorry dear we don't do second chances. - [Voiceover] Hey look it's not about that. Please, I really need to talk to you. Please? - [Voiceover] Right-o, right but hurry up about it. - I've been watching your place all day, the new one, your star boy. I know him. Look I hate violence, just wanna help that's all. - Jessie. You're staring the poo popped. Face it, you failed quality control. - What have I got to do to get you to listen to me? We're all brothers aren't we? - Yes I think you are, yes I was being a bit hard on you and I think we do want to talk about it. Besides I haven't seen leather like that since Rawhide. Come along little doggy. (upbeat dance music) (tense music) - Oh in death as in life, Byron created a hell of a dim. - I know you're cynical about quote Rhythm and Blues-- - No, I love them. An R and B is an R and B he eats to his own nature, I mean you wouldn't expect a pistachio ice cream to be hot and forever. - I'm not a pistachio ice cream. Has Henry gone? - Yes, even servants have to pretend to have a life. - What do you really think of me? - Oh a bit of a Mona Lisa. Smart and enigmatic with a wicked smile. - You don't need those two you know. I could be your guy. And you could give me more than anyone else. - Three tits certain. - I like that. The five of us could be a great team. - Sorry dear applicant, the post is filled. - [John] But he's left you. - As long as his Cartiye box is here, Jean-Claude is here. - That seems a bit superficial. - Love is superficial. That's what makes it so sublime. - We could be great together. With your money and power and well, my way with people. - Look at me, first class degree in moral philosophy, a property tycoon, a connosseur of everything from handle to scandal. And I have to fall in love with little miss average housewife from Avenue. Huh. - Well I'm not average at anything. I could teach you how to love me. - Love my dear John is like a separate being, a separate animal inside of us. Devolved in the soul. It comes like a nightmare and shakes every part of you. - So I'm just an object of lust then? - But that's a complement! - [John] Well lust can lead to love. - Oh please. - Look, I wanna move in here with you. I want us to share a life together. And I bet I'm the only father of Niche you know. - But who wants to share toothpaste with Superman? Forget it my dear. (phone beeping) - [Voiceover] Yes hello? - Hello, Jean-Claude? It's me, oh please stop crying. Listen I just wanted you to know that well I do have a heart. It's just that I don't like wearing it on my sleeve, I mean it might be pickled by Damian Hurst or something. (mumbling) - Look at please, just tell Captain Harry and yourself that I do love you in my own bad way. - [Voiceover] Well it's apparent! (tense music) - Blob blob blob. - If you want to live put your hands behind your back. Put your hands behind your back! (Bad Daddy choking) - Should I be scared for my money or my life? I don't suppose you're going to rape me. - This is the only way of having a real conversation with you. - My god am I that bad? - You've been searching for someone. And now you've found him. I am your destiny. - Oh, I supposed Mitzi and Bethsheba will expect a destiny surcharge. And all I wanted was a good dusting down. - Promise you, in six months time, you'll never want to look at another rent boy again. I'll show you pleasures. You don't know exist. - No, going to teach granny to suck eggs are we? - Oh you. You have fucked your life up. And now, you're fucking my life up. Oh. This makes me feel really low. You know, I don't have to do this. But now, you'll have to pay. (tense music) - My only regret is that mommy will die of embarrassment when she hears about this one. - Now tell me what I should steal from you. - What? - You heard. Tell me what I should steal from you. You owe me that at least. - Don't touch the pictures Faygan, they're alarmed. I wish I was. (sirens wailing) - [Voiceover] Get out of the way! - You bastard! (metal rattling) (phone ringing) - Where the fuck's your phone? (phone ringing) Hello? - John, you answered. No no no fine, I'm just ringing to see if you're okay. - Yeah yeah we're fine, are you at the hospital yet? - [Harold] No the traffic's hell, we'll be some time. - Well, don't rush. - You are absolutely right about BD. Jean-Claude and I are gonna break completely with BD. We didn't realize how terribly bad he is. By the way there's something else. I want to take you up on your offer. Come and live with me. Love is the only thing that endures. - Okay Harry look, should we talk about this later? All right, love. (Jean-Claude sobbing) (metal clinking) - Ink pot made of gold, real, belonged to a duchess, also real. Well as real as they get these days. - Oh fuck you. Fuck you. You know, I could still forgive you. - To quote one of my favorite movies, go suck cock in hell. - You know what Burnie? I'll see you around, take care. (Bad Daddy sighs) (tense music) - [Voiceover] Don't forgive, you forgive me, please forgive me. - For heaven's sake man, pull yourself together. Look, he smacked himself to death. - No, you don't understand. I wanted you both to know. I thought for sure he was the Ripper, so I put pills into his champagne to keep him quiet. But instead I killed him. - Hold on this is serious what kind of pills? - I told you I can't remember. - Well you've got to remember, what kind of pills were they? - Well I'm not sure, they were either ecstasy pills or sleeping pills or maybe aspirin. I don't know there were six seven 16 I can't remember my memory's shattered like glass. - Well you've got to unshatter it! Look, we may be talking manslaughter here. - Yes I am a slaughterer. I want to be hanged. (speaking in French) (Jean-Claude sobbing) - Look, we don't know what you are until we know how many pills they were and what kind they were. Now you've got to think hard for god's sake! - Yes well I can't remember. I'm not the mathematician. I'm... I'm a murderer, I must be punished! - Christ! - I must be punished! - Come in! (Jean-Claude sobbing) - Get off me ya bum snatching frog! - Byron, you're alive! - He's alive. - Holy shit he really is alive. - Hey, can I get paid now? (phone ringing) (answering machine beeping) - [Voiceover] Hello, you've reached Boys Galore Escorts where safety is fun and fun is safe. If you leave us your name, telephone number, and personal preference, we'll get back to you. And I promise you won't be disappointed. (answering machine beeps) - [Voiceover] Mitzi Mitzi alarm alarm! Mitzi, Gladys here, stop whatever you're doing you have, than your job. - [Voiceover] I knew he was no good when I saw him putting on the nun's grace. - [Voiceover] Oh shut up, we've called out The Pink Avenger. - [Voiceover] We are not taking this lying down. - [Voiceover] Lie down but-- - [Voiceover] We believe the Rent Boy Ripper too-- - [Voiceover] He smells of shoe polish. - [Voiceover] Yes, don't speak to anyone. (answering machine beeps) - What you lot haven't figured out yet? There are no... (drowned out by claning) I loathe you lot. Oh no not seeing, around TV, politics, factories. Even football. For fuck's sake. Now you're trying to take over the army. You spread disease. Like rats. And pidgeons. See queens like you turning areas like this into sewers. Well. Big boy. We straight men are taking back the streets. - Just came back from the, sorry chaps I didn't realize you were having a session, I'm not here. (Mitzi groaning) (David laughing) (ominous music) (Mitzi sobbing) - Oh, you wanna be a eunuch. (Mitzi groaning) Well, I'm gonna fulfill your sick dream. - You swine. I wish it had been a minute lesser. I might have known this mutant boy was the Ripper. Too much attitude for a leather queen. (Mitzi shouting) Oh, oh. Mitzi Mitzi oh darling do. This is going to hurt me far more than it hurts you. (Mitzi sobbing) - Bethsheba. Where would I be without you? - Oh, bent sitting old darling. (both sobbing) - Oh no! My baby has been ripped! - Good god, let me handle this. He's alive. - [Jean-Claude] Alive. Oh my baby you're alive. - JC you came back. - [Voiceover] Oh fuckers fine! - Oh my god it's Byron. My god it's the first gay Lazarus. - The poor boy went into a rare form of coma. - It's happened before. They say I'm a medical wonder. - [Jean-Claude] Forgive me my baby forgive me. - Even the halitosis? - Was that fucker John wasn't it? I knew he'd let me down. - What did you say? John? It was John. Oh I feel such a fool. - Oh my marionette. - Oh, I've see what these things can do to ya man. What a sicko. - Bad Daddy, this episode has taught me a lesson BD. I'm finished with looking for love on building sites. - My jewels. My jewels! - Oh don't panic dear, the originals are in the bank vault. - You let me wear fakes? - I found some fireworks. Can I light them off? - Yes, tie yourself to one of them. - I'll do too. - He's happy as a sand boy now. - Well I hope you've learned to come home from love. - JC I'm not just coming from love, tonight I am love. And I've been thinking, I'm going to set up a charity to help young men like Byron meet sugar daddies who are really educated people. You know, men who are sophisticated, witty, and above all caring. Get the picture? - I'm afraid we do. (laughing) - [Byron] Out of control, wow! - Come on come on. - Three, two one, I'm gonna spray the sky! (Byron laughing) Get up there! Far out man. (upbeat music) - Look at Judy Garland's the climax at last. - Oh why reach for the stars when we've got each other? (upbeat music) (fireworks whistling) - What about this is crap? It's rubbish, crap, what is this? All you do is bring me home fakes. All fakes! Papa took you to the best museums, the best art galleries, the best jewelers, and what do you come home with? Fakes! Why'd you think we sent you to the gays? Because they're rich, and they have expensive tastes. You, you come home with fakes I wouldn't put on my dog! You're no good as a thief, you're no good as a fag. You're no good as a son! Thank god papa fell off the ladder when he did. So he wouldn't see the shame that you're putting us through! Why do you think a millionaire keeps a box of Brillo pads on his desk? Reminded to do the washing up? - You never told me about Andy Warhol. - I never told you how to shit either but you haven't been constipated all your life! - You fucked me up! - Not enough not enough! Not enough-- - You fucked me up! (John screaming) (lively swing music) ♪ After years of very queen I'm being ♪ For years I foiled the demon king ♪ But alas, I'm getting old ♪ The years have flown somehow ♪ And I feel the fairy snow drops ♪ Isn't wanted now ♪ Nobody loves the fairy ♪ When she's 40 ♪ Nobody loves the fairy ♪ When she's old ♪ She makes you have ♪ A magic time ♪ But that is not enough ♪ They like their bit of magic ♪ From a younger bit of stuff ♪ When once your silver dollar's ♪ Lost its glitter ♪ And the tinsel looks like rust ♪ Instead of gold ♪ Your fairy days are ending ♪ When your wand has started bending ♪ No one loves a fairy when she's old ♪ (dramatic music) ♪ Strange men tell you ♪ Come in the night like thieves ♪ Desperate angel arrive with a smile ♪ But you leave only brief ♪ Like ice is your heart you're the predator ♪ After your prey ♪ You've got no compassion ♪ You just want the lover ♪ Okay ♪ It's a game you play ♪ With a stranger's desire ♪ Leaving them high and dry ♪ Little lamb say goodbye ♪ Broken hearted to die ♪ Dark angel destroying your dangerous way ♪ Some angels steal hearts ♪ With words that you say ♪ It's a game you play ♪ A stranger's desire ♪ For a serial liar ♪ It's the feeling you break ♪ When you live for the thrill of the kill ♪ When you live for the thrill of the kill ♪