Transcript for Too Many Winners (1947) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (theatrical music) (kazoo quacking) - It's a good thing for you that I'm not hunting ducks. - Yeah, what are you hunting? - A guy called Michael Shayne. - You found me, I'm Michael Shayne. - I'm Gil Madden. - Oh, my secretary, Miss Hamilton. - How do you do? - Pleased to meet you. I've got a little proposition that might interest you. - Yeah? - I hope it isn't about a case, we're just leaving on our vacation. - Is that so? - Yes, Miss Hamilton's aunt has a ranch up north, she invited us up to try our luck with the ducks. - Well, that's a break for me. - It is? - Why? - Because I was just about to offer you say $2,000- - Go ahead, say it, say it. - $2,000 for you not to take a certain case, but since you're going on your vacation that won't be necessary. - Well, now wait a minute. - So long. Happy duck hunting. (kazoo quacks) - How do you like that? First time in my life I ever got a chance to get paid for not working. - Uh oh, come on, you take these things down to the car, I'll straighten up the office. Say, I wonder who that was. - I wonder what that was. - Come on, I'll see you downstairs. - $2,000. (kazoo quacks) (gentle music) (phone rings) - No, I won't answer it. (phone rings) You're not going to spoil my vacation. (phone rings) Ring your head off. (phone rings) Oh, I guess I'd better answer it. Hello. Yes, this is Michael Shayne's office, hurry, please. I mean- - This is Albert Payson, president of the Santa Rosita Race Track. I'd like to consult with Mr. Shayne on a very important matter. - Yes, Alfred Payson, Santa Rosita Race Track. I'm terribly sorry, Mr. Shayne isn't in right now. Call back later this afternoon. - Well, about how late? - The later the better. That'll be fine. - Someone for me? - Oh no, no, goodbye. No, it was just one of my boyfriends. - The one with teeth like a rabbit? - No, the one with the two heads. Look Mike, don't remind me to dislike you, I'll remember it. Come on, get those things so we can get going. (phone rings) Mike, tell them we're not here, please. - Michael Shayne speaking. - My crystal ball tells me that you might be in the market for a bit of information that should knit you a tidy little fee. - Oh yes, well, what was that again, doctor? I didn't quite get that. - Look, Private Eye, this is Mayme Martin. - For reminding me, I'll be right over to your office, doctor. - Oh, I get it, my office. Okay, Mayme Martin, the rose apartments, apartment number 14. The fee will be one grand, goodbye. - I almost forget those vitamin shots. - Since when do you need vitamins? - There's some new vitamins Dr. Williams has he wants me to try them. - I think you need a shot of truth serum more than anything else. So help me, if this is another one of those tricks- - Are you animating that George Washington Shayne is telling an untruth? - I've been stood up so many times I've got calluses on my disposition. So help me, Mike, if you're not back in 30 minutes I'm going on our vacation alone and you'll need a new secretary. - Angel, you're as cute as a button, but you always pop off at the wrong time. Now don't worry, I'll be back in 30 minutes. (dramatic music) - Don't get too close, he might get wise we're tailing him. (doorbell rings) - Well, if it isn't dear Albert, do come right in, darling. - Suppose we skip the endearing terms. - What's the matter, afraid your wife followed you down here? - We'll leave my wife out of this. - I wasn't expecting you 'til this afternoon. - Well, after I got your phone call last night I knew exactly what you wanted. - My, Albert, you certainly have changed since the old days. - I'm sorry I can't say the same for you, you're still up to your old tricks, aren't you? Well, suppose we get down to business. - Okay, if that's the way you want it. I'll take $1,500 for this little bundle of sweet nothing that you wrote. - 1,500? You told me you only wanted $1,000 for them. - The extra 500 is because I don't like your attitude. - I see. Well... - 1,500 even, thank you Albert dear. - That's with the understanding that you give up your job in that night club and get out of town. In any case, one thing is certain, that's the last money you're going to get from me. - Oh, Albert, who would ever think a hard hearted banker like you could ever write adoring love letters? I just hate to give them up. - Yes, I know just how you feel, dear. (doorbell rings) - Who's that? - Oh, that wouldn't interest you. I guess you better run. - Yes, I guess I'd better. - Mr. Shayne? - That's right. - You didn't waste any time, come on in. Can I buy you a drink? - No thanks. What's on your mind? - Must we talk business right away? I've been sort of lonely. - Do you always smoke cigars when you're lonely? - I never get that lonely. - You don't mind if I look around, do you? - You won't find anything in the kitchen but some cockroaches. - You never can tell, a nice girl like you might have a couple of chaperones hanging around. All right, what have you got to sale. - You're not very sociable, are you? - I didn't come here to sociable, let's get down to cases, I'm in a hurry. - Okay. Is it worth a grand for you to solve the Santa Rosita case in the next two minutes? - You've got the wrong number. I never heard of the Santa Rosita case. - Oh, don't give me that, I know they were going to call you in on the case. I know all the answers. - Collecting answers is my hobby. If you've got anything worth $1,000, I'll buy it. - Lay it on the line. - Not so fast. Take a look in your crystal ball, you'll see that Mike Shayne never buys anything sight unseen. - I'm not trying to pull a fast one, I've got information that's worth plenty to you, it's cheap at a grand. - I still don't know what you're talking about. - Okay, okay, when Payson does contact you, look me up before you go to Santa Rosita. - Why not? - And if you get lonesome some night, stop in at the Green Lantern and I'll sing you a lullaby. - Thanks, but I have my calf and my type. - Just a minute, tall, dark, and lonesome, remember, I don't give any information before I get paid off. - Sister, the kind of game you're playing, you're a cinch to get paid off, plenty. - He's been in there quite a while, they must've found something interesting to talk about. - Well, that gal Mayme's awful easy to talk to. Say, maybe you can help me find this address. - What's the idea? - I wanna talk to you where we won't be interrupted. - I'd like to be agreeable, but I'm going on a vacation. - You better be agreeable, you might go on a long vacation to the morgue. - Well, when you put it that way. - Get going, Junior, down to that truck. You'll just love our free pick up and delivery service. Open the door. Get in. - Come on, get in. Get in! (dramatic music) - You run a slick workshop for a couple of hoodlums. - Yeah, the boss figures we'd get quicker results this way. - Who's the boss? - I'll ask the questions. Let's see what Mayme Martin told you. - She told me she liked my big brown eyes. - That ain't no joke, Junior. What did she spill about Santa Rosita? - I don't seem to remember we talked about Santa Rosita. - Maybe that'll help you remember. - Ungrateful brute! Inconsiderate! Why do I put up with this? Ouch! Oh, my foot! I'll never speak to him again. (phone rings) It's him. Hello? - This is Albert Payson again. - Oh. No, Mr. Shayne has not returned. - Well, would it be possible to leave a confidential message? - Yes, I'm Mr. Shayne's private secretary. - Well, give him this message. - Yes. Yes, he'll get it as soon as he comes in, goodbye. Who knows when Shayne will come in. Who does he think I am? He's gonna take me on a vacation. Who does he think I am, a fool? Oh, he can't do this to me, I'll show him. He'll get it, but not from me. - I smell something burning, could it be you? - I'll say it's me. - Oh, what a story. I can just see my editor's eye glisten when I tell him, the glass eye that is. Loyal secretary stood up again by ungrateful boss. - And you can add this, loyal secretary is through, but believe me you, loyal secretary has had enough. Loyal secretary is going on vacation as planned, afterwards loyal secretary gets job with man who appreciates loyalty, hard work, efficiency. - All right, all right. - I'm getting away from here before I get like him. Irrational! Do I think I'd stay here and give him the message in this envelope? No! You give it to him, I'm through. Mike Shayne has made me see the light. I'll never be in the dark again. When I think of the years I've wasted slaving for that slave driver, me, a model secretary, neat, efficient, quiet, a wonderful disposition. I'm through! - Hey! Your hat. - Thanks. (door slams) - Oh love, it's wonderful, beautiful. It shouldn't happen to a dog, like me. - Listen, problem boy, Mayme knew that you were slated to handle that Santa Rosita case. She got in touch with you as a pay off, right? - Try again. - Why don't you make it easy on yourself and come clean and tell me what she said? - Tough quiz, master, I'm not handling any case. - Wise guy, huh? My knuckles are just aching, now why don't you tell me. - I'm going on my vacation and Mayme Martin didn't tell me anything, next question. - You already look tough or you don't know nothing. Slouch, get ready to unload this guy. - Okay, Joe. (dramatic music) Sweet dreams, Junior. (dramatic music) - Wow. Hello, sweetheart, give me the city desk and hurry. - Chief, this is Tim Rourke, I... Now don't be sarcastic, Daddy. I'm not in bed. Oh, what language, Chief. Okay, okay, so I'm a bad boy, but I tell you I'm on a big story. I'm not out with Marge. I haven't seen her for over a week. Chief, I tell you I got something out of this world. It's a big scoop. No, I'm not out with Peggy. I'm out with- - Phyllis. - Phyllis. No, Chief, I'm not out with Phyllis. You're too late, I quit. - I hope you weren't calling New York or Philadelphia or some place like that. - No, where you been? - Nevermind that, have you seen Phil? - Have I? But this time I think she was at her best. - Little upset, huh? - A little? Boy, I shudder at your knowledge of a woman's emotions. She said to tell you she was going on her vacation alone and for you to get yourself a new secretary. She said... Shall I go on? - No. - Mike, here's a message for you. - Payson, oh, Payson. - Yeah, Albert Payson. - Albert Payson, president of Santa Rosita Race Track asked that you meet Hardeman, the track manager at the Santa Rosita Hotel at nine tonight to investigate the cashing of counterfeit parimutuel tickets. It'd be a great help if I knew what everybody's talking about. - I was thinking the same thing. - I'll have to hurry if I get to Santa Rosita by nine. Tim, hop over to the rose apartments, apartment number 14. You'll find a girl named Mayme Martin, she's got some information on this case I may be able to use. If it's worth it, pay her off, here's 1,000 bucks. - But Mike, I don't get it. - You will, if you're the newspaper man you claim to be. And call me tonight at the Santa Rosita Hotel long distance. - Right. - Tim? Pick up my car, will you? It's parked out in front of Mayme's apartment house, I hope. - Okay. - Oh, and Tim, remember I want action on this so see that you and Mayme just talk business, huh? - No need to worry, pal, you know me. - Yeah, and I met Mayme, that's why I worry. - All right, buddy. (Tim knocking) Excuse me, Miss, I... Oh, hello Charlie. What goes on, Charlie? - Who tipped you, news boy? We just got here ourselves. - Nobody tipped me off. - Come on, come on, come on, what are you doing here? - Well, I met this Mayme Martin gal in a bar the other night, she asked me to come around to see her. I didn't know she was asking me to funeral, I'd have brought some flowers. Any idea who did it? - Could be suicide. - You think so? - I ain't talking 'til I finish my investigation. Rourke? Mike Shayne's telephone number in that desk drawer over there. - What does that prove? - It proves to me that Mike... Squirrel fodder, so Shayne was here. - Maybe Kilroy eats peanuts, you don't know. - Nobody throws peanut shells around like Mike Shayne. I tell you... Hey, what are you doing? Hiding evidence, huh? I thought that story you told me about meeting Mayme Martin in a bar had a fishy sound. Let's see what else you've got. You know, you're a cute boy. 1,000 bucks. Come clean, where'd you get it? - It's mine. - Oh, you've never had 1,000 bucks in your life. And you just happen to walk in on a dame that's just been murdered and you sort of accidental like tried to hide evidence that'll incriminate your pal. Are you gonna sing by yourself or shall I have the boys accompany you? Come clean, where's Mike Shayne? - He's gone out to Santa Rosita. - Santa Rosita? Well at last I got Mike Shayne mixed up in a murder and when I get through with him he'll turn in his license and go back to the farm, believe me. - Oh, that's a new song, why don't you get a new set of lyrics? - Oh, come on, we're gonna go to Santa Rosita. Come on, guys, let's go. - Yes? - I'd like to see Mister- (phone rings) - Yes? Yes, Miss Hamilton. Quite right, Miss Hamilton. - I want to leave a call for nine o'clock in the morning. Oh, and have the garage man fill up my car with gas and check my tires. - Here, you can't do that. 1,000 pardons, Miss Hamilton, but there's a man here- (kazoo quacks) - If Mike Shayne thinks I stopped to wait for him, he's crazy. I just got tired driving, that's all. I'm leaving first thing in the morning and you tell him to leave me alone. I don't ever want to see him again. - That was entirely uncalled for. - Make nothing of it, she's a very dear friend of mine. - If that's the way all your friends feel about you I'm glad we are strangers. - Oh, you know how women are, don't you? - Yes, I do. And I know what a wolf is when I see one. You can't stay here. - Relax, I'm just a sheep in wolf's clothing. Call Mr. Hardeman, tell him Mike Shayne's here. - Mr. Hardeman? - Yeah, Mr. Hardeman. - Of course, Mr. Shayne. Mr. Hardeman's suite, please. (phone rings) - Hello? - Good evening, Mr. Hardeman, this is the desk, Mr. Shayne has arrived. - Oh, thank you. Have him come right up. - Yes, Mr. Hardeman. Mr. Hardeman's suite is 210. - Thanks, I want a room after I talk to him, take care of my bags. - Yes, Mr. Shayne. - We are friends, aren't we? - Any friend of Mr. Hardeman is a friend of mine. - Thank you, Clarence. - How did you know my name was Clarence? - Psychic. (gentle music) (Mike knocking) - Come right in, Mr. Shayne. - Oh, thanks. - Payson told me he had trouble getting ahold of you. I'm awfully glad you could keep the appointment, would you sit down? Oh, pardon me, will you have a cigar? - Yeah, thanks. - So much depends on an early solution of this case, Mr. Shayne. I'm sure you'll forgive me for getting right down to business. - Well, the sooner I have the facts, the better. - First, let's settle a matter of your fee. I suppose you're interested in that. - That's right. But first, suppose you tell me what I have to do to earn it. - Ideally it's this, the track is losing thousands of dollars a day because we're cashing more win tickets than we sale. And the only possible solution is that somebody somewhere is counterfeiting the parimutuel tickets. - Who prints your tickets? - The Elite Printing Company. - Oh, looks like I'll pay them a visit in the morning. - I'm afraid you're wasting your time there, Mr. Payson, the president of the track is the owner of the Elite Printing Company. He's suggested calling you in when the local police confessed they were completely baffled. - Who decides on your daily design and code number? - I do. No one else knows what it'll be until the tickets are printed and brought back to the track by special officer. - That puts you in a tough spot, doesn't it? - Exactly. Mr. Payson has decided to close down the track if you can't get to the bottom of this thing in a week. So you see my job as general manager of the track is at stake. - Well, a week's not much time. - I realize that. But Mr. Payson has authorized me to pay you $10,000 for a solution. - All right, it's a deal. Do you know Mayme Martin? - Yes, why do you ask? - Too bad you didn't take root when we planted you this morning, this time we'll put you under six feet of dirt. - What's the meaning of this? (dramatic music) (gun shot) - What was that? - I knew it! I knew something terrible would happen as soon as I saw that man, come along. - That sounded like shots. - It's down there. - Mike! Oh, darling. - Great heavens, she shot him. - Don't be ridiculous, get a doctor. - Get a doctor. - Get a doctor. - Oh, me? Oh, not Mr. Hardeman too. Oh, this is terrible. - Oh, Mike, I'm sorry I said all those dreadful things about you. Mike, please don't turn over. (somber music) - There you are. - Take my word for it, he'll be up and around tomorrow. - Thank you. - Heaven, huh? Never thought I'd make it. - Darling, I'll never let you out of my sight again. - Yeah, Heaven. - Almost. Somebody tried to measure you for a halo. (detective knocking) - Hey Pete, why don't you yell, open in the name of the law? - Is Mike Shayne... Oh. - Why, Peter, what a happy surprise, it was sweet of you to worry about me. But where are the fruit and flowers? - You're crazy if you think I came down here because a couple of mugs pushed you around. Let's hear what you know about the Mayme Martin murder. - Mayme Martin murder? - As if you didn't know. - That's right, it was a pretty messy job. - So she was on the low? I guess I owe her an apology. - I hope you deliver it in person. - You'll be all right now, Mr. Shayne, so I'll say goodnight. Get a good rest. - Goodnight, doctor, thanks a lot. - How's the patient? - He wasn't badly hurt, the bullet only creased him. - Good, can we see him? - Sure, go on in. - Glad to hear you're all right, Shayne. - It was a close call for both of us. Oh, my secretary Miss Hamilton, Mr. Hardeman. - A pleasure. Now this is Chief Boyle of our local police force, Miss Hamilton. - Mr. Shayne. Good evening, Miss Hamilton. Shayne, I don't like the kind of welcome you received in our town. - I wasn't crazy about it either. Meet Tim Rourke a screwball reporter and Pete Rafferty head of LA homicide. - How do you do? - A woman named Mayme Martin was murdered in town today and Pete seems to think he can find the answer out here. - Mayme Martin murdered? John, you knew that Martin woman. - Yes, Mayme Martin was a friend of mine at one time. Do you have any idea who might have killed her? - That's the $64 question I wanna ask Shayne. He was the last one to see her alive. - There was one after me, Pete, and I think I know who it was. - So you do know who it was. Would it be asking too much to let me in on your little secret or do I have to beat it out of you with my own two hands? - Now Pete, Mike's in no condition to argue. - No, mustn't be upset, doctor's orders. - Why don't you come back in the morning when you're more rested and your mind's clear. - Well, at least you'll be rested, Pete. - I think we should leave, I have a splitting headache myself. I'll be glad to see you in my office in the morning, Shayne if you feel up to it. - I'll be there. - It was a pleasure meeting you, Miss Hamilton. - Thank you. - Good night. - Good night. - Better come down to the station, Rafferty, we might get a lead on this. - Okay, Boyle. But I'm not through with you, I want a man stationed outside that door. - Pete, that's very considerate of you. - Don't get me wrong, brainless, I don't want you bumped off before I can add things up. - You couldn't add to 10 without your fingers. - Why you! I oughta flatten the other side of your head and make it all square. - Now, Mr. Rafferty, don't lose your temper again. Remember, Mike was hit on the head and he isn't quite normal. - The hit on the head had nothing to do with it. Come on, Boyle, before there's another murder committed. - Oh, Mike, why do you deliberately antagonize Rafferty when you know he'd give up his retirement pension just to pin something on you? - Oh, he started it. Good night, angel, I'll see you at breakfast. - Oh, that's fine. You get involved in a murder, you almost get yourself killed, we lose out on our vacation, and all you say is, I'll see you at breakfast. I'm always around when you get into trouble, but what about you? You say, I'll see you later and you never show up. I worry if you're alive and you say, I'll see you at breakfast. How do I know you'll be there? Shut up. - I didn't say anything. - You don't have to say anything, you think out loud. (gentle music) - How long we gonna stay here, Joe? - We're gonna stay here until wiseguy Shayne comes out. - Maybe he won't come out 'til tomorrow morning. - That's right, and maybe he might try to sneak out before. We've got to keep your eyes open. See? Good night. (bell rings) - Oh, it's you. - Good morning, Clarence. - Checking out? - No, I like it here, it's so peaceful and quiet. - It was, but after last night our respectable guests are moving out. - You have no idea how safe that makes me feel. How do I get to the Santa Rosita Race Track? - Main Street north then west on Route 10 to the main gate. If you keep on going, I'll be glad to forward your bags. - I'd like to cooperate, but I'm going to spend the rest of my life right here with you, goodbye Clarence. - Looking for someone? - What do you think? I've called his room, I've looked in the coffee shop- - Little man wasn't there, huh? - Now where do you suppose he is? - Well, you come equipped with a woman's intuition and you don't know. What do you want from me, miracles? Let's ask the clerk. - Okay. Clerk? - Yes? Oh, checking out? - No, have you seen Mr. Shayne. - Yes, he left a few minutes ago for the race track. - Thank you. - That's a pal for you, he's got something big and I need his story. Does he tell me, no. While he goes there, I wait here, a man without a job. - The longer you know Shayne the longer you get used to waiting for him. Oh, what can you do with a man like that? - What do you care? I thought you were off Mike for life. - Oh, Tim, you just don't understand women. - Who does? Come on, beautiful, I'll buy you breakfast if you'll pay the check. - We've gone through the whole town with a fine-toothed comb and can't find anybody that answers the description you gave us of those two hoodlums. - Morning, gentlemen, what's the conference? - It's part of the usual routine of getting the parimutuel tickets printed. And I told you, the design and code numbers are delivered to the print shop under police protection under the seals are broken at the print shop no one except myself knows what they are. - What about the men assigned to guard the tickets? - The men selected for the job were above reproach. That's more than I can say for you after what Rafferty told me. - Thanks, I'll say something nice about you some time. - Furthermore, for the past few days I've personalized supervised the delivery of the tickets. You see, John, this case is just too tough for a private eye and he's trying to collect a fee by casting suspicion on me. I resent his interference just when I was about to lay hands on the counterfeiters. - You know, I hate to be personal, but I'd like to point out that anybody who couldn't find the two thugs who took a shot at me last night couldn't find a giraffe in a flock of sheep. - Why you! - Gentlemen, if you please. - Chief, you know I had nothing to do with calling Mr. Shayne in, it was Payson's idea. But now that he's working on the case I think it's up to all of us to cooperate. - I don't care who breaks the case, I want it solved. - All right, I've got to get down to select men to cover the mutuel windows. - I wonder what makes some people so sensitive. - Shayne, I don't think it was very wise of you to antagonize Boyle. But that's your own affair. What progress have you made, if any, in solving this case? - Quite little, Mr. Hardeman. For instance, if I knew who murdered Mayme Martin I could crack this case right now. - Mayme Martin? What connection could she possible have with the case? - That's what I was hoping you could tell me, you used to know her, didn't you? - Knowing Mayme Martin wasn't exactly an exclusive privilege. I was introduced to her by Gil Madden, editor of the Tribune. - Madden know her well? - They were friends of long standing, I believe. And even though I only took her out a few times, Madden never could seem to get over the fact that Mayme preferred my company to his. You know how those things are. - I gather then that you and he aren't exactly buddies. - I'm sorry to say we're not. Although he isn't the kind of a man to hold a grudge of a woman like Mayme. - Does he have other reasons? - Well, yes. You see, Madden has been trying for some time to get the track contract for printing the tickets, but the Elite Printing Company has been doing the work. In spite of the fact that Madden has always submitted a lower bid. - How do you account for that? - Very simply, Mr. Payson is the owner of the Elite Printing Company. I'm not going to argue with him and the board over a few extra pennies. - Well, you explained that to him, didn't you? - Oh, certainly. Evidently, he thinks I'm in a position to do more for him than I actually can. - Well John, I just learned what happened last night. I certainly am glad to see you're all right. - Thanks. Oh, this is Michael Shayne, Mr. Payson. - How do you do, Mr. Payson? - How are you? Shayne, I see you weren't injured seriously either. - No, as long as they shoot me in the head I guess I'm all right, the bullets just glanced off. (phone rings) - Oh, excuse me. Hello? Yes, what is it? I'll be right over. The armored car is just delivering the money for today's races. I've got to verify the bank statement with our cashiers. Now let me know as soon as you uncover anything, Shayne. - All right, I'll do that. - Shayne, I'm worried. All my funds are tied up in the race track and as I'm president of the Santa Rosita bank, the failure of the track would ruin my business reputation and bankrupt me personally. - Oh, that's too bad. But if people didn't get in trouble I'd be out of business. What do you know about Gil Madden? - Do you suspect him? - I don't suspect anyone in particular, just want to get a clear picture, that's all. What can you tell me about him? - Well, I first met Madden about five years ago when he bought The Tribune. - Where'd he come from? - Urbana, Illinois. He owned a printing plant there which he used as collateral to buy The Tribune. - Did you loan him the money? - Oh yes, the appraisal of the plant at Urbana was satisfactory but we did uncover something of unusual interest during the transaction. - Yeah? - The plant was transferred from a Theodore Ross to Madden purely as a gift. - What's so unusual about that? - Well, further investigation revealed that Ross was in Joliet Prison at the time of the transaction. - Oh, I see. Can you tell me anything else about him? - No, except he borrowed $6,000 from the bank a few days ago. - When'd you see him last? - Yesterday in Los Angeles. He was with his assistant, Ben Edwards. - Well, thanks a lot Mr. Payson, you've been quite a help. - Well, how do you plan on going about solving this counterfeiting matter? - Oh, I don't know. A lot of angles I have to look into. I'll let you know when I get something definite. - Well, the sooner the better. (gentle music) - Well, hello, get any ducks? - No, not yet. I'm looking for something else right now. So you're Gil Madden, huh? - That's right. Oh, well make yourself comfortable. - Thanks. Where do you fit into this crossword puzzle? - If I told you, you'd know as much as I do. - It's too bad you left my office in such a hurry yesterday. - I see. I suppose the ante's going up now that you've talked to Hardeman. Well, I'll give you 6,000 bucks to drop the case. - Frank's already offered me 10 to clear it up, so you see I have a client. - Honestly. - Reasonably so. - If you refuse to do business with me I guess we've got nothing else to talk about. - It works, these pictures are perfect, 10 years of sweat and worry but now I've got a camera- - I'm busy right now, we'll talk about it later. - Oh, sorry, Gil, I thought you'd be in this way. - Aren't you going to introduce us, Madden? - This is Ben Edwards, my photographer and engraver. Mr. Shayne is a private detective, Ben. - Glad to know you, Edwards. - Hello, Mr. Shayne. Excuse me, I'm sorry I butted in, Gil. - Oh, don't be in a hurry, I'd like to ask you a few questions. - Just a minute, wiseguy, you ask me the questions. Go ahead, Ben, I'll talk to you later. - He's a little shy, isn't he? - Is he? - Known him a long time? - Long enough. - Edwards? Edwards? Skipped out the back way, huh? - You're supposed to know all the answers. - Why did you tell me Edwards was with you in Los Angeles when Mayme was murdered? - Ben would have no reason to kill her. - I wonder. - I was in Los Angeles too, so were Payson and Hardeman, that doesn't prove anything. - There's no alibi either. Now stop stalling, Madden, how long have you known Edwards? - What's it to you, Mr. Distract Attorney? If you're smart you'll take that 6,000 bucks and go duck hunting or you may end up singing in Saint Peter's choir. - That'll be a break for Saint Peter. I'm a pretty good baritone. Where can I find Edwards? - The only information I give out from now is what you'll see printed in my paper. - Madden, you're in no spot to hide anything. Now where does Edwards live? - Okay, he lives at 134 Lakeview Avenue, now get out and stay out. - I got a hunch one of you guys is a duck and the other a decoy. As soon as I know enough to call my shots I'll be back for some answers. (gentle music) - Call for Miss Phyllis Hamilton. Call for Miss Phyllis Hamilton. - That's me. - Telephone Miss Hamilton, you may take it in the booth. - Thank you. Hello? - Hello, angel. I want you to do something for me, call the warden at Joliet Penitentiary and get me the dope on a guy named Theodore Ross. - What's up, Mike, have you got an angle? - I got so many angles I can see the back of my neck. Now remember that name, Theodore Ross. Now hop on it, angel, bye. - Give me the warden at Joliet Penitentiary. - Miss Hamilton, not so loud, please. - I'll take the call in my room. Don't forget, Joliet Penitentiary. (dramatic music) - He don't seem to learn very fast, does he? - No, some guys don't know enough to keep alive. - Hello, is Mr. Edwards in? - Why no, isn't he at the plant? - I was just there, they told me he'd left. - He's probably on his way home. - Well, I'm very anxious to see him, could I wait? - Why, certainly, come in. - Thank you. I'm Michael Shayne, a private investigator. - Is there anything wrong? Has anything happened to Ben? - Well, not that I- - Gee, Mike Shayne, a private detective. - My son Jimmy is a very enthusiastic detective story fan. - Oh, I see. Dick Tracy's quite a guy, isn't he? - Dick Tracy couldn't have done no better than you did at the hotel last night. I read all about it in The Tribune. - Jimmy, he couldn't have done any better. - Yeah Mom, that's what I said. - Jimmy, you run along and play. - Oh gee, Mom. - Run along. - Okay. Can I have a nickel? - Yes, I guess so. You know here my purse is. - Yep, goodbye Mr. Shayne. It was swell to meet you. - Goodbye, Jimmy. Stay on the up and up. - I sure will, Mr. Shayne and I'm pulling for you. - He's a quite lad, Mrs. Edwards. - Yes, Jimmy is a good boy. Mr. Shayne, is Ben in any trouble? - No, not that I know of, I just wanna ask him a few questions. Is this your wedding picture? - Yes, it is. Taken 10 years ago tomorrow. - Oh, you married back east? - Yes, Urbana, Illinois. I liked it back there. But Ben thought he'd like to come to California. Ben dear, this is Mr. Shayne. - We've already met. I don't know what you're after but I won't have any private copper snooping around my home. - I just want to ask you a few questions. How long have you known Gil Madden? - None of your business, I'm not answering your questions. - Edwards, I might be able to help you. - I'll take care of myself, now get out. - You're making a- - I said get out. - All right, if you feel that way about it. - Oh, Mr. Shayne, would like a peanut? - Yeah, I believe I would. - Help yourself, take a lot. - Thanks, Jimmy. - You're welcome. - So long. - So long. Gee, Dad, I wish I could be a smart detective like him. (dramatic music) - So he's leaving alone, I thought him and Edwards would pal up. - What do we do now? - Follow Junior. - But the boss said not to lose Edwards. - Oh, we can pick up Edwards anytime. Get going. - You have to leave right away? - Yes, dear, I haven't a minute to waste. - Oh, Ben. - What's wrong? Where are you going, Dad? - Nothing's wrong, son, I just have to go to Washington to be sure the patents to our cameras are in order. I'll get my things. - Oh, hello angel, did you get that information? - Aren't I always the perfect secretary? Theodore Ross and Claude Bates were convicted of counterfeiting Irish sweepstakes tickets in '38. Ross drew a light sentence and has been released. Claude Bates drew 20 to 50 but escaped two years later and is still at large. - Yeah, thanks. I want you to do something else for me, angel. Call the marriage license bureau in Urbana, Illinois, find out who was married November 14, 1936. - Yes, Mr. Shayne. Then may I have the rest of the afternoon off? - Sure, I'll meet you in the cafe at the race track after the last race. - That I've got to see. Give me the marriage license bureau at Urbana, Illinois, I'll take it in the booth. - Are you and Mr. Shayne planning to get married? - Certainly not, Mr. Shayne has three wives already. - Oh, I see. - It's like I said, boss, we followed Shayne over to the hotel, he's still in there with the dame. - You blundering idiot, what happened to Edwards? - Well, we left him over at his house. - I told you what to do, dead or alive we can frame Edwards but if he gets away we're done for. Get back over to that Edwards place and see that he doesn't leave town alive. (gun shot) - What did they tell you? - Urbana sure must be a small town, only one couple was married on that date, Claude Bates and Mary Grant. - This is tough, really tough. - What is it, Mike? - Looks like a little kid's gonna get smacked right in the heart. I'll see you later. (dramatic music) - What's up, Joe? - Edwards is taking a powder, but I think he'll stop at the print shop before he leaves town, now get to him. - Look, Gil, I've tried to be on the up and up for the sake of Jimmy and Mary, but I've had the pressure put on to the point where I just can't take it anymore. - What's this all about then? - It's just as well if you don't know too much about it. Here are the drawings and plans for the camera. Now in case I don't come back, maybe you can arrange for the patents and see that my family's taken care of. - You know I will, Ben. That's what friends are for. You'll need some money. - Oh, no thanks. - Now don't be silly, I got $6,000 right here in the... Oh no, I put it in the safe. If you're gonna lay low for a while you'll need some cash, after all we've been friends for a long time, Ben. We've been through some good times together and some bad times, we'll get out of this all right. You just wait and see. - Where's Edwards? - Why? He isn't here. - If you're his friend you'll tell me where he is. (gun shots) (dramatic music) Do you know who killed him? - I got a pretty good idea. (dramatic music) - Meet me after the last race he says, we'll have dinner together he says. - Yeah, I'm stood up too. I lost my shirt in that last race and shirts my size are hard to get. - Hello children, I hope I haven't kept you waiting. - Mike Shayne, you are completely and utterly the most exasperating, undependable date breaker I ever knew. - Those are harsh words, angel. Remind me to resent them sometime. - Shayne? - Oh yes, Mr. Payson. - I demand to know what progress you're making. We've been flooded with counterfeit tickets today. - You won't have anymore counterfeit tickets. - You mean you've cracked this case? - Practically, I still have a couple of loose ends to pick up. Come on, angel. - Hey, what about the murder? - Which murder? - Is there another one? - You should keep better posted on events. The same person who murdered Mayme Martin also had Ben Edwards killed. - What about my story? - Pete will tell you all about it as soon as he makes the arrest. Come on, angel. Mr. Payson, you can send my check over to the hotel in 10 minutes. - He strikes me as an odd sort, not my idea of a detective at all. He's my idea of a pain in the neck. Come on, Boyle, I wanna ask Hardeman some questions. Not you, news boy, you're not invited. - Now that you have, thanks a lot, I'll be glad to come along. - I've known Shayne for years, you never know what that guys gonna- - Uh oh. - Hardeman. - Another corporal select tie. If murder's contagious, I'm gonna be a dead pigeon. - Hey, Rafferty, this is for you. - Read it, Pete, if you can. - Shayne was here, he's worse than Kilroy, listen to this, "Before you and Boyle put this down as murder, "meet me at Hardeman's room, Mike." - What's he up to now? - I don't know. But if he's trying to obstruct justice we'll slap him in the clink and throw the key away, come on. (gentle music) - Make it snappy, angel, don't keep me waiting. - Your sense of humor, you should write jokes for the radio. - No kidding, I bet you a kiss I'm back before you are. - Oh Mike, you know I don't approve of gambling. - It's no gamble, it's a sure thing. Angel, you know this could run into a lot of time we've got to get packed now, hurry up. - Two down and one to go, when we follow Shayne we'll take a nice little trip down to Mexico. - Yeah, maybe the boss will give us a bonus. - Yeah, maybe. (siren wailing) (dramatic music) - Hold it, drop that gun. All right, Hardeman's dead, which one of you guys killed him? - Dead, what do we do, Joe? - Just keep your mouth shut. - Spill it, give me the dope and I'll see what I can do to help you. - Don't be a sucker, that guy wouldn't help nobody. - Edwards must have shot Hardeman just before Joe plugged him at the print shop. - Why you! - Hold it, go ahead. - And Hardeman put the finger on Mayme Martin, she was giving him the sell out. Joe did that job too. (dramatic music) (gun shots) - Merciful heavens, here we go again. (bell ringing) Somebody! I'll handle this myself. (siren wailing) (dramatic music) - Wait a minute. - That was nice work, Pete, you just captured one of the murderers of Mayme Martin and Edwards, when he comes to you can get his confession. - What about your confession, you'd better explain this note or your mailing address will be San Quinton. - Oh that, well Edwards was an escaped convict, Hardeman was blackmailing him to counterfeit parimutuel tickets. - So Edwards plugged Hardeman, but what's that got to do with this note? - Did you know Edwards had a wife and kid? - Sure. Nice folks. What are you driving at? - Edwards' boy doesn't know about his dad's record. - So what? - Well, I thought as long as both Edwards and Hardeman were dead, maybe you and Chief Boyle could see your way clear to giving the kid and his mother a break, you know, just call the case closed. - Well, it might be suicide. - Could be heart failure. - Maybe it was poison ivy. - Circumstantial evidence. - Okay, case closed. - Pete, I gotta get back before Phyllis blows her top again. When Payson shows up will you and Chief Boyle give them the low down? - Yeah, sure. You know, Boyle and I were about to wind up this case too, Shayne. After all, we weren't born yesterday. - Sure you boys weren't born yesterday, it's too nice a day. - Wait a minute- - Oh, he don't mean nothing, he's just got a warped sense of humor. - Hey Tim, see that you give Pete and Chief Boyle plenty of credit for cracking this case, huh? - Sure, Mike. I always did say three heads were better than one. Especially if they're not all on the same body. - Very funny, very funny. Let's get this punk out of here, come on. - Oh, Shayne? Boyle and Rafferty have explained everything, I understand the case is closed. Here's your check, Mr. Shayne. - Oh, thanks. You know I'd have earned this sooner if you hadn't been so careless. - How so? - The next time you play an off the record call on the girlfriend, don't leave your cigar wrappers laying around. - Well, you see, I knew Mayme Martin before I was married, since then she's been threatening- - Skip it, that's your affair. (kazoo quacking) Oh, my mate's calling, we're flying north. Goodbye. - Goodbye, Shayne. - That last quack was perfect, angel. It have melted Dick Croy's heart. - Shayne? I understand you wanted to see me. - Yeah, here's something Ben Edwards overlooked the last time he saw Hardeman. - Oh, so you knew that Ben and I were ex-cons. - Yep. - Ben came to me after he escaped. I didn't have the heart to turn him in. - I understand. - You knew that Ben killed Hardeman, why did you keep your mouth shut? - Ben's dead, Rafferty and I decided there was no point in making Mrs. Edwards and Jimmy pay double. - You're okay, Shayne. - Do what you can for them with that camera Ben invented. - They'll never have to worry about anything, I'll take care of that. - Thanks. - Angel, you didn't give me a chance to say goodbye. - You know, there are times when I think you're pretty nice. - Sure enough? - Uh huh. (kazoo quacking) - Now that one had feeling. (Mike and Phyllis chuckling) (gentle music)