Transcript for The Man Who Lived at the Ritz (1988) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [music playing] PHILIP WEBER (VOICEOVER): In the summer of 1927, my uncle Gerard took me to Paris and changed my life forever. The trip was a gift from my uncle on my graduation from the St Louis Art Student's League, and I suspect, a perfect opportunity for him to escape his humdrum world of insurance. And enjoy once again, the legendary Ritz Hotel and all the old haunts of his youth. For a kid who had never been outside St Louis, not even to Springfield or Jefferson City, I was sure the Paris of my dreams would never be matched by the real thing. (LAUGHING) How wrong I was. For in fact, this magical city far exceeded my most dazzling fantasy. Here is your key Which, of course, my uncle knew would happen. Oh, we had a wonderful time until that afternoon. It's been a-- it's been a great week, hasn't it? [dramatic music] I'm-- Philip, oh, my boy. Love Paris, life, (WHISPERING) passionately. PHILIP WEBER: (VOICEOVER) And then he was gone in the city he loved so much. The city, that in the oddest way, he was to give to me. For after the funeral, I was summoned to my uncle's lawyer in Paris for the reading of the will. He stipulated, and I quote, "my nephew Philip Weber shall be provided with a stipend to be used to pay for the most modest room at the Ritz Hotel. " PHILIP WEBER: (VOICEOVER) A room at the Ritz Hotel. Even pocket money to cover my living expenses. All for as long as I wished to stay in Paris and paint. I was indeed a very fortunate young man. [music playing] Welcome to the Ritz, M. Weber. Thank you. [music playing] Thank you, Uncle [music playing] [crowd chatter] Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to worry. Your jobs are safe. The Ritz remains open. Some of our suites will be commandeered for high-ranking German officers. Some of our permanent residents, like Mademoiselle Chanel, will remain. One or two of our long time guests, Mr. Vadim, Mr. Philip Weber will be allowed to keep their rooms. Madame Ritz, what kind of service will we provide? Our customary service. We will be professional and correct. Of course. In anticipation of better days. France has fallen. Not the Ritz. Oh, Ja, Ja. Charlie. Congratulations, you get to keep your room. Great, Charlie. How'd you swing it? Well thank my mother. Your mother? Or maybe not. Won't be the old Ritz, will it? Achtung. [speaking german] Achtung. What do we have here? Well, well, well the man himself. Reichsmarschall Hermann Goering. There goes the neighborhood. Who are you? What are you doing here? I live here. I'm Charles Ritz. And you? Philip Weber. I'm a guest. We have your passport. An American, a neutral. I hope you intend to stay one. Do you mean me, Colonel? Or my country? Your country doesn't concern me. Only the security of the hotel and its surrounding perimeter. I'm very fond of neutrals. MAN RAY: Phil. What the hell are you still doing in Paris? Man, what happened to you both? Ah, the roads are still choked with refugees. There's no gas, still less food. The Nazis have checkpoints everywhere. We were crazy to try to make it through to the unoccupied zone. If it weren't for Denise-- That's right. It's my fault. I can't get her to come with me to the states. Do you blame me, Philippe? What would America be for me? First, let Man paint me white. Enough, enough, we're not going. Hey, Phil, I thought you'd be home by now. This is home. I have my room at the Ritz, enough to live on, I paint. Among these maniacs? The Nazis are plundering collections from Amsterdam to Paris to-- anything modern, they call degenerate Picasso, Matisse, Klee. If they stumbled in here, this stuff would go right in the fire. Yours, Man, not mine. I'm sorry. You can't come in, Madame. What do you mean, I can't come in? This entrance, Madame, Is reserved for the Germans. The civilian entrance and bar on the street behind. The Rue Combo. That's the most ridiculous. What about him? He's a civilian. Madame, he lives here. Your other cases must have arrived by now. Welcome, home. It's good to see you out of uniform. Yes, if not for the defeat, it would be good. Yes, of course. [speaking german] This elevator is required out, please. Don't worry. We can all ride together. Excuse me. May I say, sir, I admire the jacket you're wearing. The workmanship on the lapels, only the French. Is that not beautiful tailoring, Karl? Yes, Reichsmarschall. May I inquire, sir, where it was constructed? At Lanvin some years ago, sir. Make a note of that, Karl. Yes, Reichsmarschall. You're not French, are you? No, American. Hmm, Sir Ahh, but you understand French tailoring. At ease. Are my heart people here? Waiting, Reichsmarschall. All right, let's have it. Reichsmarschall. Portsmouth, Dover, good, very good. The bombing results, yes, Reichsmarschall but our loss of aircraft should-- The Messerschmitt will soon learn to outmaneuver the Spitfire. Sheer numbers will crush the English. Now, I have people waiting. Heil Hitler. (TOGETHER) Heil Hitler. Well, do I have the Rubens? I'm referring, you are aware, to the Diana at the Bath. An exquisite nude, excellency, from the Dreyfus collection. (SHOUTING) Don't give me art history, Lohse. I have the Rembrandt. Do I have the Rubens? Your excellency, there have been certain complications. The Rubens had been definitely committed to you. I affixed the tag myself. I went to collect it this morning for your shipment, but it wasn't there. And where exactly is it? There is a suspicion that one of Dr. Goebbels people learned about it and changed the tag. This thievery has got to stop. How did Goebbels' people learn about the Rubens? I want that painting, and I want it now. Does Goebbels have a shipment going out? His train is due tomorrow. Then his paintings will be at the Garde de L'est. Go there tonight. Do what is necessary. I want to see that Diana here tomorrow, (SHOUTING) understood. (TOGETHER) Yes, Herr Reichsmarschall. Fraulein Falk, you will wait. [opera music] May I have one of those? No, you may not. Put on the mask. [opera music] Coco? Is anyone home? Philip, Darling, how I missed you. Coco, you look wonderful. You look like you're back from a spa, not like a refugee. Oh, don't say that ugly word. Vichy was impossible, and the trip back a nightmare. And I come back to see my beloved Paris all blacked out. Whoa. [laughter] Do you believe it? I gave away more of my No 5 as bribes than I sold in the whole of last year. Well, this is my first bubbly in weeks. Me, can you believe it? Tell me, Philip, have you been painting? Uh, yes, it'll take more than an occupation to stop that. That's all that counts. Here's to work and to survival. Ahh. Dare you describe the menu at the Ritz these days? Ah, well, there's real coffee, and there's a bowl of whipped cream on every table. The Germans put whipped cream on everything, including their women, I'll bet. I'll take you to dinner if you want a cheap place, but there's no gas. There's no decent transportation. There's an early curfew. Coco, why'd you come back? They said that if I kept the shop closed, it would be confiscated. But why you open it anyway? I have no material. And they've shipped off my girls to Germany. Some dreary work-- Oh, I must show you what I've dredged up to be a model. Martine, I need you. Oh, you're such a comfort, Philip. Oh, no, no, no, no, Martine, you look like a sack of turnips head high, hips forward, look proud. God's sake's remember, you're wearing a Chanel. [sighs] He hasn't been in Paris very long. Coco, she ain't that bad. All you can see is the face, pretty, but that's the least important. Oh, well, what does it matter anyway? I have no customers. Oh, yes, I do have one. Martine, would you entertain this handsome young man while I see what's happened to her, but watch your walking. I'm Philip Weber, by the way. Martine Fauvet. You're a friend of Mademoiselle Chanel? Yes. What brings you to Paris? I have no family left in Somer. There is nothing for me there. And here? Yes, you may be right. Paris does pay attention to beautiful women. Hmm. COCO CHANEL: Philip, I want you to admire this dress. Isn't it perfect? Ah, Lily, you will always feel chic in this, no matter where you go. Oh, this is Philip Weber. Lily Globuska. Ah, yes, the man who lives at the Ritz. Oh, you two have already met. Mm-hmm, in passing. Me out, Mr. Weber in among the Nazis at the Ritz. I have a room there. It's not an endorsement. Isn't it? If you thought it was, you wouldn't be talking so recklessly. (LAUGHING) You don't know me, Mr Weber. Are you an American? Yes. LILY GLOBUSKA: Your country will have its turn. Mine has had it, Poland. I'm sorry. Poland has fallen before and risen. I'm sure it will rise again. I will take a comfort from your words, Mr Weber. Oh, enough of these dreary arguments. Will you come for a fitting, Lily, at 3 o'clock, on the ninth. Mm-hmm, that'll be fine. Mademoiselle? Coco and I are going out to dinner. Can I persuade you to join us? Why should you want me? Haven't I proved thoroughly disagreeable? I'm hoping I've seen the worst. You might be disappointed. All right, I'll slip out of my gown. It's beautiful, but where can you wear it these days? [laughs] One always hopes. Nice to have met you, Mr. Weber. It's nice to have met you, too. Hello, Coco. Oh, Philip. You almost beat us. Those things remind me of Hong Kong, rickshaws. Have you been to Hong Kong? Yes. Thank you, Madame And I bought too much silk there. Have you eaten here before? Yes. [crowd chatter] I taste better times. Is it the past I'm tasting? Not mine. Would you like some more champagne? LILY GLOBUSKA: Un-unh, no thank you. I am-- I'm just going to go and powder my nose. Of course. You're smitten, Philip, you foolish boy. She doesn't tell us much, does she? Three bottles of champagne. All I know, is that she's Polish and that she's lost everything. She's terribly chic. What more do you need to know? War is no time to be alone. You're alone. Do you think by choice? Happily ensconced at the Ritz among my Picassos and coromandel screens. Oh, I've had great lovers handsome one, interesting ones, but you can't keep warm on memories or mementos. These are the lonely years and damned few left. Mademoiselle, Chanel. I am Major Ritter, the textile administrator. To be in the same room as so distinguished a couturier-- There can be no couturier without textile, Major. Yes so few of them have reopened their shops, but your confidence in the continuing life of Paris should be rewarded. Perhaps, I can find the textiles. And seamstresses? I'm afraid mine are wasting their skills, making parachutes for the Third Reich. Oh, this is Philip Weber. May I? It is indeed an honor to sit with a national monument. Oh, I don't mean-- if your party needs transport home before the curfew, I can be of assistance. Well, if you could do better than those wretched velo-taxis, of course. You took my country, so now you take my chair. I beg your pardon. No, no, you keep the chair. Give me back Poland. Excuse me, Lily. It's almost curfew. Coco, do you think uh, you can manage? Yes, I'll be all right. I'll be fine. Goodnight, Lily. Goodnight. [music playing] Thank you for saving me from the Nazi. How can I ever thank you? Oh, we'll think of something. Stop. I know. I know. I am going to pose for you Philip the painter. The painter who lives at the Ritz. Oh, oh, you feel so good. Oh, the city is so innocent at night. The whole world is innocent. [giggles] We could be children. Oh, Lily, I'm glad. I'm so glad you're not a child. Philip, have you ever made love in an alley, standing up. (SURPRISED) No. Let's be children, hmm. Let's be outrageous and impulsive. Lily, it's too close to curfew. I mean, I'd love to be a child with you, but not in a Nazi camp. Oh, you're so unromantic. We'll see about that. Where do you live? Rue de Rivoli. Rue de Rivoli. Ahh, wonderful. [dramatic music] [crowd chatter] Wait, wait, just a minute. I don't like here. Don't stop. Ah, Monsieur. Monsieur, what happened? (WHISPERING) There are hardly any cars on the road, but one had the bad luck to hit a Nazi soldier too drunk to tell the street from the sidewalk. Naturally, the Frenchman was frightened and drove off. Excuse me. GERMAN SOLDIER: You come here. Halt. Who is that? Stupelmeyer, he's security. [tense music] Let's get out of here. Wait, wait. Please, let's go now. Lily, I just want to see. [speaking german] Don't give me tiresome explanations. It was not an accident. It was murder. We must enforce the rules. [shouting] [speaking german] GERMAN SOLDIER: Kneel down, hands on head. [tense music] Load, aim , fire. [gunshots] [dramatic music] Yeah How did you know? (SOBBING) I've seen it before. I've seen it before in my own country. Oh, honey. No, please. Don't come with me-- Wait --tonight, not tonight. [tense music] You saw? Yes. The swine. COLONEL STUPELMEYER: Concierge, am I too late for dinner? No, Colonel. You just have time to wash your hands. [tense music] Heil Hitler. Heil Hitler. So this is my entire shipment? Everything is in order? I believe you will find it all in order, Dr. Goebbels. You have a well-balanced selection. The Malto, the-- Where is the Rubens? The Diana in her Bath? Let me see that inventory. I don't see the Rembrandt, Man with a Turban. Where is it? (SHOUTING) Where is it? HERMANN GOERING: [laughter] Heil Hitler. Heil Hitler. Oh, please sit down. You will find it more comfortable here. Now, what was it you wanted to discuss, Dr. Goebbels? Property of the fatherland which appears, by some error, to have passed to the Ritz Hotel. What property is that? The Rembrandt facing us now. HERMANN GOERING: The minister of enlightenment and propaganda is mistaken. This Rembrandt is here temporarily. It's permanent home? The Hermann Goering Museum of Fine Art, my estate Carinhall. Why not a museum in Berlin? Is that where you plan to send the Rubenstein before the Fuhrer claimed it? You do a great deal about the disposition of acquired art because you spend more time in Paris than in Germany. I'm nearer the front line, here. Need I remind the propaganda minister that my Luftwaffe is attacking England? The point I make, Reichsmarschall, is, that while I work long hours in Berlin, yours is spent here at the Ritz gobbling up art. I lost the Rubens. Why can't I have the Rembrandt? I'm sorry, Joseph. I am the Reichsmarschall. I care more about preserved beauty than any man alive. I will tell you my secret. All the great art scattered throughout Europe, I will have under one roof. I am the Medici of the Third Reich. And the world will forever remember Herman Goering for the glory of his collection. Oh, you are disappointed. The Rembrandt and the Rubens, but I have an even better Rubens for you, Venus and Adonis, one of the finest naked Venuses in all Europe. The fuhrer already has nine, but I've managed to keep this one for you. That is thoughtful of you. Thank you and there will be more to come. We have only just begun to acquire the great collections. You will have your share. Goodbye, Joseph. The Venus will be on your train tonight. Heil Hitler. Heil Hitler. Von Behr. [phone ringing] Von Behr? VON BEHR (ON PHONE): Yes, Reichsmarschall. The Rubens Venus, see that Lohse puts it on Minister Goebbels train tonight. VON BEHR (ON PHONE): But Reichsmarschall, how do I-- I know it is consigned to the fuhrer, just do it. I'm sure that Dr. Goebbels will find a way of explaining his acquisition to the fuhrer. Charlie, did you see what happened out there last night? I heard it, naturally. I'm glad I didn't see it. I mean all occupying armies take reprisals against terrorism I know that. But that was-- it was-- Is this a new Philip? Do you think if Lindbergh had been there last night, he'd have changed his position? Charlie Lindbergh doesn't say that these are good guys. He just says that it's an unwinnable war and that millions of Americans will die. And most of my country thinks the same. And what do you think? I'm a neutral. It's your war. You're the Frenchman. During the day you play with toy trains or you, you tie fishing flies. At night, you go to a whorehouse. It's only one night a week, Philip. Don't build up my ego. And at those prices, we call it the House of Pleasure. Yes, I tie flies. Germans will come and go. Fly fishing is forever. And don't knock my trains. Do you know that Herman Goering has a train set? It's the one area of life one can totally control. You're hopeless. Takes one to know one. [knock at door] Would you mind? Philip, I need you right now. What is it, Coco? You didn't get in trouble with that German, did you? Oh, Major Ritter, no, he was most pleasant. He took me home in this staff car. No, it's Hermann Goering. He wants to see me. Oh, his aide said that I could bring a friend. Oh, please come. Now, you've met Goering. You can deal with him. Coco, we had 30 seconds together in the elevator. Well, that's enough. All right, when? This evening. Wait here for the Reichsmarschall. Philip, these look like diamonds and emeralds and rubies. They can't possibly be real. GERMAN OFFICER: His excellency, Reichsmarschall Hermann Goering. Mademoiselle Chanel, you are a revered name in Germany. Ah, and the man who dresses at Lanvin. An American, correct? From-- St. Louis, sir. St. Louis, Philip Weber. Ah do sit down. The Spirit of St Louis, Colonel Lindbergh's plane. Yes, we're very proud of him, sir. Yes, I flew. I was good, an ace in the last war. But Lindbergh-- Philip is a painter. A noble calling, art is my passion. And I do not only mean paintings like the Rembrandt that so attracts Mr. Weber. I will tell you what I truly am. I am a pure sybarite. My skin craves silk, furs, the caress of diamonds, emeralds on my fingertips. I love the feel of makeup on my face, the delicacy of a fine perfume, such as your no 5, Mademoiselle. The wearing of clothes can be an art. That is why I dress like this. Oh, I know it is feminine, but I'm not involved with being feminine. Do you understand? I do not want to fondle men or kiss their cheeks. That filthy habit that they have here in Italy. When I first visited Rome, Mussolini tried to embrace me and pushed his scratchy chin upon my cheeks. But I pushed him away, and reminded him that we were soldiers. And that a simple Seig Heil was enough of a greeting for any man. My point, Mademoiselle, is that my vanity would be enhanced by free-flowing garments of your creation. What do you say? Well, I-- I-- if I had the material and the seamstresses. I will speak to Major Ritter, chief of textiles. I believe you two have met. Well, that is settled. Mr. Weber, my Rembrandt really does fascinate you. Yes, sir. I may be sticking my neck out, but is it a Rembrandt? [music playing] What do you mean? Well, sir, I could be wrong, of course, but Rembrandt worked with a very free brush. Now, this brush work is-- it's controlled. It's methodical. Philip, it's time to go. And the colors, you know his colors were strong. They had a certain glow, a patina. This is a 19th-century copy. If I were you, I'd get a 17th-century expert. [slamming door] Lily. I promised to pose for you, didn't I? That's very good. Yes, that's not mine. I sublet this space from Man Ray. LILY GLOBUSKA: Ah, Man Ray, of course, I should recognize it. Is this all right? Yes, whatever feels natural. I'll do some drawings. That one is yours. Yes, yes, what do you think? It's very skillful. Skillful, that's about how you describe a ship in a bottle. Oh, sorry. You never told me your address. I've moved. Where to? You'll find out as soon as I've settled. Oh, my lovely Philip. What do you see? What do I see? I see-- [sad music] --sadness. The war. I see sadness, loss. I see fear. Philip, but-- What? What are you afraid of, Lily? [tense music] [music playing] [crowd chatter] Heil Hitler. Where is it? The Renoir, Excellency, here. Open the crate. Excellency, your special train is scheduled to leave for Berlin in 15 minutes. The schedule may have to be changed. They told us the track is needed for troop movements. The troops will wait. Lohse. Well? Excellency, it's difficult to say for certain. It could be a copy. Quite good copies of Renoirs are known to be. (SHOUTING) Open it. Open them all. GERMAN SOLDIER: Open the crates. Open all the crates. And who alerted me to this? An American. An American in a Lanvin suit. You're supposed to be my experts. Excellency, our assignment was to catalog for your estate. Frau, do not argue with me. Excellency, the Titian-- it is possible the Titian is a forgery. Reichsmarschall, this crate is empty. And this one. Himmler, Borhmann, Rosenberg, that shriveled gimp Goebbels Who did this to me? Hello. Mr. Weber, hello. Martine, right? Mh-hmm. Yes, is Coco here? No, business is slow, but we are starting to get a new uh-- can I help you with something? Yes, yes, matter of fact, you can. That lady that I met here the other day, Lily Globuska, is she coming in for a fitting today? Oh, she called to cancel. Well, did she make another appointment? Mademoiselle Chanel would know. Yes, you're right. I'll ask her. Coco, are you in? It's Philip. Oh, hello, I'm sorry to disturb you. They told me at your shop-- I was wondering if you could tell me where I might fi-- I'm sorry. (EXASPERATED) Philip. Present arms. Mr. Weber, Mr. Weber, do you play tennis? Yes, sir. Does Mademoiselle Chanel play tennis? I've played it with her. Tomorrow afternoon at 3:00 the courts at the Sporting Club. I shall expect you both. 12 checks a year for 13 years, and it's the last one, poor boy. What do you mean? Wait a minute. I thought that my uncle's-- Solid as Gibraltar, but like the waters of Babylon, must be replenished, and nothing's getting through the blockade. Yes but Miles, there must be something we can do. I mean, won't a Paris bank accept credit based on the New York account? No, I've been all through that at two sad lunches at Fouquet's. Look, the banks now have German controllers, Philip, and they put an absolute clamp on what goes where, except for the upkeep of the occupation. I must assume that you are now without capital and without resources. No money to live at the Ritz and no bequest, unless you live at the Ritz. It's a curious-- curious dilemma that has no solution, it would seem. Look, you've had a wonderful run, Philip. I'm afraid that your-- your luck has run out. You've come to the end of your rope and the end of your Ritz. Res ipsa loquitor, the thing speaks for itself. [jazz music] [talking and laughing] Sir, sir. Sorry, sir, uh-- transportation you know. Where is Chanel? All right, well, I-- I left her a message. I'm sure she'll be here. Ah, then I'll give you the instructions. The what? For playing. I like to hit tennis balls, but I do not enjoy running for them. [laughs] So I will stand at the center of the court, about here. And you and Mademoiselle Chanel will hit the ball to either side of me, but within arm's reach, understood? Ah Yeah, yes. Good, let us play. Do my best. Good afternoon, Reichsmarschall. You're here, good. Philip, Philip. Oh, I'm so glad you're here. About the other day, do you hate me. No, no, no, Coco, listen, remember to hit the ball directly to him. To him? Yes, yes, well, you know, within arm's reach. I mean, be careful with this nut or we're all going to end up in chains. Watch me. I want you to understand about Major Ritter. Ah so it was the esteemed textile minister. It's not what you think? I am not looking for a Nazi protector. Coco, I got no way to make a living. I'm losing my income and the roof over my head. Lily's disappeared again. And I'm standing here batting tennis balls of the world's second most powerful Nazi. The last thing on my mind is who Coco Chanel is sleeping with. TENNIS PLAYER: That was lovely, Darling. Reichsmarschall, how about a fourth? Monsieur Forrestieur, you will partner Mademoiselle Chanel. Mr. Weber. - PHILIP WEBER: Yes, sir. Over here. Yes, sir. Who's he? Forrestieur, Armand, president of a car company, rich. Armand de Forrestieur, great pleasure. Philip Weber. Hello, nice to see you again. You have to hit them to him. He won't run for them. Oh, let's work a little fat off him. Thank you. Ah, we are here to enjoy ourselves. Come enjoy. [music playing] Bah. Yes. Yes [music playing] We win! Game, set, and match. Well done. Most enjoyable, Mr. Weber. Yes. [laughter] [music playing] Mr. Weber, I see you like my Renoir. Yes, sir, it's wonderful. But doesn't it-- didn't it belong to the Dreyfus family? Jews have no property rights here. Since we all know they have had a stranglehold on objects of art for centuries, one of the missions of the Third Reich, has been to liberate their collections for the benefit of the people. Excuse me, Reichsmarschall, I think nobody has a stranglehold on spotting great art before it's recognized as great art. Men far richer than the Dreyfus family have invested heavily in the wrong artists for years. I do not underestimate the artistic eye yours, for example. I was very impressed by your spotting my Rembrandt as a forgery. And I have given some thought as to how I might safeguard myself against other forgeries. That is why I invited you here tonight. Now, could these crimes have occurred without the connivance of one of my art staff? I do not think so. Now we need somebody to watch over them. You, Mr. Weber. [music playing] I could always say I commissioned you to write a book on the Herman Goering Collection of Fine Art. That way you could poke your nose into everything. Of course, I would pay you adequately for your time. What do you say? Think it over. This report reinforces my confidence in you. You have a dossier on me? I have a dossier on everybody. [music playing] [phone rings] Yes. Mr. Weber, I have a note for you. Hello, Henri, who from? One Lily Globuska, shall I -- No, hold it. I'll be right down. [speaking french] Thank you. Henri, where is La Dernier? I'll write the address. Oh. Piaf is singing there. Oh, yes. Yes, you're going tonight? Yes, to see the lady. I wonder if I might impose. Do you know the restaurant Che Gaston? Yes, my cousin Victor is a waiter there, and I promised to return his Balzac. Transport is not easy, and this is directly on your way. Say no more. I'll take care of it. Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. [music playing] But the prices. Terrible, Excuse me, is there a waiter here named Victor? Victor? Yes. That is Monsieur by the kitchen door. Would you like to wait for him there, please. [tense music] [crowd chatter] [laughing] SS MAN: [speaking german] Victor. Where is the book, Victor? VICTOR: I-- I-- I-- I don't-- I don't know. I don't know. SS MAN: Tell me, VIctor. VICTOR: I told you. I don't know. I-- I don't know. [gasps] [grunts] [tense music] [gasps and grunts] You forgot this. VICTOR: I don't know. I don't know. [dramatic music] [speaking german] [approaching footsteps] Here, let me help you. [music playing] [grunts and groans] EDITH PIAF: (SINGING) [speaking french] Where the hell have you been? Oh, don't fight, lovely man. [speaking french] The lady of the night is a lonely one. On the coronale No man wants to be with this sad girl. Who cares if she dies? Her man will never come back. All her beautiful dreams are gone. Her life is ruined. And yet still her sad legs lead her to the corner where another artist play all night long. [speaking french] Oh, isn't she wonderful. Piaf speaks for everyone who has been used and abandoned. I'm the one who's been abandoned. EDITH PIAF: [speaking french] [applause and cheers] Bravo Bravo, that was wonderful. Piaf, thank you. That's me you're singing about. I hope not. No, it's me, my life. Maybe yours too. It's a curse to be a woman, eh? A curse and a blessing, most times a curse. More blessings to you. Oh, Philip, is there any hope for me? What do you think? [music playing] Come on, let's go someplace where we can talk. But where? I haven't got much time. My studio is five minutes from here. Do you think you can manage not to disappear on me again? [laughs] Oh, Philip, I'm so tired. Like a wind up toy that's nearly at an end. Come here. Oh, Oh, Philip, I've been drinking all day, but I don't feel drunk. I can see things very, very clearly. Yes, I see you very clearly. [music playing] Philip, I've made some terrible mistakes, terrible mistakes. We all make mistakes, Lily. Oh, yes, we all make mistakes, and we pay for them. You said after we pay for them, we're in the clear. Let me help you. Oh, Philip. Philip, in the beginning, I thought it was all a game, and now I realize it isn't a game at all. And I don't want to play anymore, but that's not how it works. That's not in the rules. Oh, Philip. Philip, care for me. Really care for me. Philip, do you really care for me? Yes. Really. Oh. [romantic music] Thousand apologies, Mr. Weber. Henri, you almost got me arrested by the Gestapo. I'm sorry, but it was to be a simple delivery. If I thought there was any danger-- Don't get people involved in your little games without their permission. I understand, although I thought you seem pretty easy. I'm a neutral, remember. And don't ask me about your book. It's gone. It's destroyed. I don't want to hear about it. Is that clear? Yes. I'm sorry, but is it really possible to be neutral, Mr. Weber? HERMANN GOERING: Don't be alarmed, Mr. Weber. I'm not a sexual deviant. As I told you, I find women's clothes more relaxing. They're certainly more practical for men than they are for women, allowing, as they do, freedom in the area where men are more abundantly endowed. Morphine. Little habit I acquired after being wounded in a street fight in the early days of the Party. No matter. Did you consider my job offer? Yes, I-- Good, I would like you to take up your duties at once. You will find them quite simple. Under the pretext of research on my behalf, you will keep your eyes open at the collating center of the Louvre and report any irregularities. Sir, of course, I'm very flattered, but I must respectfully decline. Decline? What are you talking about? Sir, my country is not in this war. America-- Weber, I'm not putting you in the cockpit of a Messerschmitt. I'm simply asking you to be a witness to history, to observe the respectful redistribution of the world's great art. It is a unique opportunity. Sir, I appreciate that, and still, I can't do it. Weber, you put me in a very awkward position, but this is wartime. Every resource must bring results. You're consuming a room at this hotel. You're also consuming food and fuel, and what do you produce, Mr Weber? What do you produce? Well, sir, I-- I-- I'm a painter. Your art is a luxury that wartime cannot support. Someone very soon will say this room at the Ritz, this consumption of resources, must bring results. [tense music] Someone very soon. That someone may question your presence here. Perhaps, even your presence in Paris. Someone very soon. Do you see my problem, Weber? [overflying aircraft] VON BEHR: You know the law. All paintings above a certain value, must be listed in your inventory. But this painting has value to no one but me. It is only a portrait of my mother. Only your mother. List it and turn it in. Next. [speaking german] now let's Herr Weber? Yes. Ilse Falk. The Reichsmarschall said to expect you. OFFICIAL: How did you know? JEWISH MAN: Well, I just-- Mr. Weber, welcome. Please, come in. So, I am Baron von Behr. It is less hectic in here. Those people fuss so about the rules. You cannot imagine how often we must go to their houses and physically remove the works. The study of art history prepared me for none of this tiresome bickering. JEWISH MAN: That this one tiny bit is so important. You're an artist? Yes, well, I paint. Ah, yes. The Reichsmarschall mentioned you. I understand you are to have access to our inventories and so forth. May I ask the purpose of your study? Well, I'm researching a book on the Goering collection, a general survey and appreciation. Ah, yes, you will be with us full time? Well, no, actually, I try to paint-- JEWISH MAN: No, you don't do that. OFFICIAL: We got it and we keep it. We will have to find you a place to work that is less distracting. JEWISH MAN: You can't do that to me. OFFICIAL: That's final. DENISE: Go away. I won't see you. Get out. Go. go on. Go on. Go. What the hell do I care? Get out of here. Pig, pig. Hi Phil. Bitch, you don't know what's good for you. Too stupid to take your chance. Stay, what the hell do I care? Stay and die. DENISE: And don't come back. It's a war zone. She's a one woman Luftwaffe. Oh. Sit down. I need a drink. WAITER: Yes, Monsieur. Man, what's going on? She thinks I'm deserting her. I'm leaving for the States and I can't get her to come. I won't stay in this sewer another week. I need a drink, white wine. WAITER: Yes, Monsieur If I see another swastika, I Shh If I don't get out here, I'm going to explode. You get out too, Phil. Come with me to Portugal. They got ships there for the States. I can't, Man, Why? It's Lily, this woman I told you about. She's disappeared. I got to try and find her. A Polish refugee? Hey, Phil, Phil, you're too old for crushes. It's not a crush, Man. I'm in love with her. Monsieur. Anyway, what about my work? I'm a painter. That's what I do. Your paintings-- your paintings aren't worth crap. No, no, look that's not true. I don't mean that. I wouldn't have said that if I wasn't drunk and driven nuts by Denise. OK, I understand. It's all right. Look, Phil, you do all right technically. You got good color sense, you got good brushstroke, and you've got a strong sense for composition, but you have one big deficiency. It's not in their nature to take a risk. Your nature is to play it safe. Innovation requires risk. Did you ever place a bet using all your rent money? Did you ever have an affair with a friend's wife? Would you paint a face green like Chagall? You see. Risk. I understand, Man. I try. Look, I can only be what I am. Yeah, well, it's a-- it's another approach. I'll miss you a lot. You sure you won't come? I can't. I'll miss you too. [music playing] HENRI: Mr. Weber, once again, I'm terribly sorry about Che Gaston. And by way of apology, I have a gift for you. A gift? Yes, a gift. Louis Delor, who works at the wine seller over there, has it. Henri, are you hooking me into another one of your little games. No, no, no, not at all. I assure you, Mr Weber, this gift will please you. All right. You are Monsieur Weber? Louis Delor. You have some wine for me, Louis? What'd you guys do, steal the Germans' white Burgundys? It's not wine, Monsieur. You've been trying to locate a certain young woman, name of Lily Grobuska. You know where she is? The address, go at night. [music playing] How did you find out? By chance. These days, one hand washes the other. Thank you. Why are you doing this for me? One day, your hand may wash mine-- [dramatic music] --Monsieur Weber TENNIS PLAYERS: All right, All right, Monsieur. Charlie, I'm so sorry to make you wait. I enjoyed watching. Your games as brilliant as ever. Oh, yes. I hear you tweaked Goering's nose on the court. My bit for France. You look to be flourishing. How's your mother? Splendid. Still running the Ritz with an iron hand. That's reassuring. Do you have bourbon? No, sir. Uh-scotch? We have neither, Monsieur. May I suggest sir, vermouth and soda. Is there a war? Very well. So still drinking the bourbon, Charlie. All those years in the States? And you, still drinking your scotch. Two spoiled children of privilege. I have the family house now. House? You can hardly call the Chateau de Forrestieur a house. Well, you know when I'm in it, among my family's treasures, it's almost as if there'd been no war, no occupation. Then I have to remind myself of our national tragedy. You're leading up to something. I owe France something, Charlie, England too, maybe, for my years there. I've joined with some other people. You? I see. Why are you telling me? Because I'd like your help. We need a safe place for a radio transmitter. And the safest place I can think of is under the Germans' noses, at the Ritz, Are you crazy? Your train room, with transformers and power drain and so on, it would be the perfect cover for us. What would Mother say? The Germans would take the hotel down brick by brick if they found out. Madame Ritz doesn't need to know. There's little even you need to know. We need the room, at most, for half an hour a week. No. Say, when you were at Madame Rochaise. No. And when I say no, I mean no. Is it your mother, or you? Thanks for the drink, Armand. [classical music] Yes. I'm looking for Lily Globuska. Admittance is by invitation only. Well, I just wanted to say hello to an old friend. Philip I am sorry, Monsieur. You villain. You won't come here with me, yet you sneak over by yourself. I was just leaving, come in. We'll make a Frenchman of you yet. Good evening, Monsieur Charles. [classical music] [women laughing] Bankers, members of parliament, nobility, you've probably seen most of them at the Ritz with their wives. [speaking french] [laughter] The chef here is from the Tour d'Eiffel. Claire, may I present Philip Weber. Philip, this is Claire, my love of these many Wednesday nights. Good to meet you, Philip. Claire, can you think of someone suitable for Philip? I don't know. Is there a kind of companion you have in mind? Anyway, Charlie, you'll have to ask Madame Roget first. Why don't you show Philip around. Good idea, upstairs. Not every couple can get out of town these days. Claire and I often retreat in here. Who hasn't dreamed of making love to a farm girl. Not many of the fops in this place have ever had the chance. The fantasy lives. Here's my favorite. The ultimate in furtive seduction, destination and companion unknown. The only thing that counts is the moment. And of course, the movement of the train. [train whistle] Would you like to see the nursery, or the operating room? No, Charlie, Charlie, where-- where do the girls dress? Ahh, a Voyeur, through there. But we're not allowe-- Gentlemen are not permitted here. There's somebody I have to see. Through a keyhole, perhaps, only by arrangement, Monsieur. And I'm afraid I don't have the pleasure of your acquaintance. I must ask you to leave. Madame Rochaise, please, he's my brother. I don't like this, Adrian. We will talk later. 10 minutes. Adrian. Oui, Adrian. That's the name I use here. Where you work. Yes. As a whore. Yes. For how long? Three weeks. In another three weeks, I would have had enough money to leave the country. But I have to leave here. Any day, the German command takes over the use of the club for staff officers. Even here, even for money, I will not go to bed with a Nazi. Until now, I have chosen who I go with. You choose me. How much do I owe you for our night together? Philip, I cared for you. I still care for you. Philip, can you help me. They won't let me go. Who won't? The Germans. Two Luftwaffe officers always bank together, and they didn't know that I was in the next room. I-- I don't know what they were talking about, but when I passed the door, I spoke the one word that I had heard. It was a joke. They were being so secretive. I whispered, white cliff. White cliff? Yes, white cliff. It's all I heard. And the Gestapo have questioned me twice. They don't believe that I know nothing. I can't get out of here. Please, Philip, help me. You've got yourself in a mess, haven't you? Did you have to work in this place. Oh, you men. instead I've had something that you would approve. Philip, Philip, listen to me. I was born poor. I had looks. I had nerve. I had luck. At 19, I met a rich man, and he taught me manners. At 26, I meet a wise man, and he begins to teach me everything else. I loved him, [dramatic music] And he was Professor, and the Nazis were afraid of that. So they come to the house, and they take him away. Well, not away, exactly. Since they can't be bothered. They him just outside the door, and halfway to the gate, they shot him. I left Poland with my life. I'm sorry. Oh, yes, you're sorry, yes but you feel dirty, huh? Because you slept with a whore. How do you think I feel, Philip. I slept with a man who lives at the Ritz. Philip, please, I'm sorry. Please help me. Please. [music playing] I'll try. Madame-- I'll-- [dramatic music] Monsieur Weber, what brings you here. I want to thank you for finding Lily Globuska. Louis, she wants to get out of that place. Can your people help? Help? Help You Well, will you help us? Help you? What can I do for you? You work for Goering. You know about the stolen art. We want that information. It's safe with me. If that information got into the wrong hands-- We need that information. No, I can't take that risk. All of us take some risks. Yes, for your country. And for those we care about. Remember, Monsieur Weber, one hand washes the other. For the fuhrer. The fuhrer, good, very good. Oh, I don't like this Gainsborough, Goebbels, why not? Himmler. Himmler. It's about what he'd appreciate. Ah, this Bruegel is for me, eh? Good, Lohse, very, very good. A fine example of early Bruegel excellency. Flemish genre painting of the highest order. What do you say von Behr? VON BEHR: Sir, I couldn't agree more. Bruegel at his most joyful. Brilliant insight. Weber, Weber. Yes. When you're with me, Weber, stay with me. It's what I pay you for. How do you like my Bruegel? Very much. The younger Bruegel was often underrated. The younger Bruegel Yes, sir. Pieter's son, also named Pieter. He often copied his father's work and very well, too. I know perfectly well who the younger Bruegel is. Why was I not told it was his? We assumed you knew, excellency. Never, never, assume, sir. Peter Bruegel the younger, as I'm sure you know, sir, he's quite valuable in his own right. Give it to Goebbels. I'm Charlie Rich's friend, Adrian's brother. As I'm her sister. May I come in? [classical music] My clientele has been informed as of Sunday, evenings are reserved for the German command. Yes, well, that doesn't concern me. I just want to see my sister. Your Adrian is causing me a great deal of trouble. I want to take her out of here. I don't think it is possible now. This club is no longer entirely in my hands. Please, just tell me where she is. Do you know the [inaudible] room? Yes. She is expecting a client. Thank you. Philip Weber. I didn't know you were a member. Yes, Armand, excuse me, please. [classical music] Lily. [dramatic music] [sad music] And the news of the moment when he-- [dramatic music] Colonel Stupelmeyer, may I introduce myself. My name is Armand de Forrestieur. I have seen you on the courts at the sporting club, and if I may say so, I'm a great admirer of your style. May I give you my card? [tense music] The list is complete, shipping dates, destinations, names of paintings, recipients, Hitler, Goebbels, Himmler, whoever. [clattering bottle] I have it all written down. You understand, Mr. Weber, neutral or not, when you give us this list, you put yourself at risk of the Gestapo. Just tell me when to bring it to you. Not to us. The less we each know, the safer we all are. Someone will be in touch. [music playing] [phone ringing] Yes. UNKNOWN MAN (ON PHONE): Monsieur Weber, your taxi has arrived. I didn't order it. UNKNOWN MAN (ON PHONE): But you did, Monsieur. It is waiting for you. Yes, Henri, I'll be right down. [tense music] Monsieur Weber? Yes. I have your taxi, Pierre Monet. Ah. It's a beautiful name, huh? I picked it myself. Where are we going? You're too anxious, Monsieur Weber. If I tell you now, and the Gestapo arrest us, you'll wish you didn't know. [jazz music] [dramatic music] Darling, sorry I'm late. Don't be so quick to give things away. The notebook is for me. Put it on the bench between us. Martine, how long have you been-- Long enough. I was sorry to hear about Lily Globuska. They tortured her. She didn't even know any-- I want to do what I can. Good, you've shown you're ready to save paintings. How about people? Thousands of people? Tell me. Only that you would be asked to spy on Goering. Someone is feeding him information from the Luftwaffe. Information that could help destroy England. Who? We don't know. Except they think the Germans call this person, White Cliff. White Cliff? White Cliff is the name Lily heard. That was all she heard. She was killed for it. And so may we all. [music playing]