Transcript for Journey to the West: A Duel of the Faith (2021) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- When Heaven and Earth first formed, the world order was still taking shape. All living beings wished to become immortals and live forever. Little did they know that the Celestial Palace way up in Heaven solely relied on the support of the ever-operating Heavenly Pillar. The Iron Lady Star Deity, who represented the power of Heaven, thus used immortal ascension as bait to make the mortal cultivators suffer like hell. They had to work day and night to ensure the Celestial Palace in heaven functioned normally. The path to immortality became the path of death. All living beings complained bitterly, yet the gods turned a deaf ear to them. Until one day, the mortal world finally found out the truth. In order to rescue their loved ones, a war against gods and the power of Heaven has therefore begun. The living beings in Qingya rebelled in the name of seeking freedom. The Iron Lady Star Deity is ordered by the Jade Emperor to suppress the rebellion and uphold the law of Heaven on his behalf. Ah! A bunch of pests. Today, I'll crush you all. It's been years. I didn't expect you still couldn't get over that thing. Well. Venerable Lord, why did you peek into my dream again? Don't you know that it's very disrespectful? I promised your mother I'd discipline you on behalf of her. As an elder, it's necessary and reasonable to observe your thoughts sometimes. What's wrong with that? Fine. Then do you think it's reasonable for the Celestial Palace to rely on its immense divine power to treat the outmatched mortal world in such a brutal way? The Celestial Palace rules the Three Realms, Five Elements, Six Paths and Yin and Yang. It relied on the order of Heaven and Earth that's existed since the beginning of the world to create time and space, humans and gods. To maintain the order, sometimes... Death is inevitable. In other words, because of their final sacrifice, we can... We can resume our lives and live in peace. You say that all the time. I remember it. Also, you can't always... Stay at the South Heaven Gate and idle away. I will strive to improve myself. Wrong. You can't always ignore that person. Talk to him. After all, he's your father. It's okay if you don't listen to me, but you should listen to him. He's just a prisoner, but I'm a celestial warrior. Maybe some other time. You are always sharp-tongued. Sun Wukong, a monkey born from a stone, gained a human body after absorbing the essence of the sun and the moon, and receiving the nurture of Yin and Yang. The Jade Emperor hereby invites you to the Celestial Palace and appoints you as Chief Protector of the Horses. Hope you'll fulfill your duty and won't let His Majesty down. Chief Protector of the Horses. It sounds like an honorable position. We worked very hard to help you get this position. After careful consideration, we think you'll be a perfect fit for this post. After all, you are also an animal by nature. It'll be easier for you to manage the horses. Monkey, put all jokes aside, the horses are waiting for you to feed them. You may leave now. Although the Horse Stables are at the lowest level of the 36 layers of heaven, the celestial horses are precious. You can't treat them as ordinary horses. You need to follow strict diet rules when you feed them. There are altogether 81 horse stables. They must be cleaned three times a day. If someone needs a horse, the name of the person and his purpose must be clearly recorded. If anything happens to the horses, you can't afford to compensate even if you die 10 times. Have I made myself clear? Yes, very clear. What's this groove for? This groove is used to deal with horse manure. The Horse Stables stinks. Remember, do not let the odor get out and disturb the gods. Do you remember? Yes, I remember. Alright, that's all. If there's anything you don't understand figure it out yourself. Hey, hey. Come to visit when you have time. I finally got you. Hi. Come here. Do not make a sound later. Just follow my lead. Okay. Don't stop. Push harder. Hurry. Come on! Push! Don't stop. Get up. Quick. Get up. Ger up. How come you were also caught? I came here this time to get you out of this horrible place in secret. Hey, be quiet. What are you waiting for? Hurry and jump. Hey, make way. I'll go first. Jump. Come on. Jump. Is it safe? Could you show us how to do it? I'm fine. It worked. I did it. Guys, hurry and jump. It's safe. Come on. Let's go. Push. Push. Push. Push. My goodness. Run! Finally, I got them all out. Don't worry. Now that they are gone, I'll be your playmate. Hey. I'm talking to you. They all left. Why are you still here? I can't leave. I must stay here. Stay here? Have you lost your mind because of the shock? Come on. Leave. Don't mind me. I can't leave. You think I really mind? Go. Heavenly Imprisonment Mark? Tell me, who are you? I've told you, I can't get out of here. You monkey, you'll get me in trouble. So what if you have the imprisonment mark? If you can't get out from the barrier, then let's leave from the South Heaven Gate. Come on. Move. I need to go back. My Lord, you know it's the Heavenly Imprisonment Mark. Even if you can save me for now, you can't save me forever. I've promised someone I'd get all the people enslaved by the Iron Lady Star Deity out of here. I won't leave anybody behind. Now, move. Erlang. You've got a nerve, you demonic money. The power of Heaven rules all. I won't allow you to offend it. Let that person go and come with me to the Lingxiao Hall to plead guilty. Otherwise... Always the same lines. It's getting old. If you want to pick up a fight, just cut the crap and do it. Run. You are such a handful. And now, it's my turn. Erlang. You demonic monkey. I'll kill you. What do you think you are doing? Stop messing around. Let's go. Come on. None of you can leave. If you want to die, I'll grant your wish. Stop it. Let him go. I'll leave with you right now. Let him go. I once heard something interesting that Fairy Yunhua, the younger sister of the Jade Emperor secretly went out with a mortal scholar. And not only that, she even gave birth to a son. Later, Fairy Yunhua felt embarrassed about it and went to the Peach Mountain to live there alone, leaving her husband and son in the Celestial Palace to suffer. Do you think it's a rumor or the truth? If you dare to defame Fairy Yunhua again, I... I... I'll fight you with my life. It's cold, isn't it? Yang Tianyou, I didn't expect you to be this courageous. Now, take this medicine. It can relieve the pain caused by the poison of the Heavenly Imprisonment Mark. You'll feel better. Come on. Just take it. What the heck is this? This is actually my urine. Hey, do you feel there's heat spreading all over your body and you've started to warm up? - You... - You what? I'm trying to save your life. Save my life? How can you manage to do that? Hmph, don't look down upon monkeys. Although I can't remove the imprisonment mark, I know who can. You are useless. You are the gatekeeper of the Celestial Palace. How could you let that monkey break the prisoner out right under your nose? Look at that monkey. Look how arrogant he is down the Mortal Realm. You seriously embarrassed the entire Celestial Palace. Who knows if he set them free on purpose? Don't forget that he is half-human after all. Star Deity, I'm willing to lead the Army of Heaven to Mount Huaguo and have a battle with... with that monkey to reclaim our ruling power. Please allow me to go. Are you suffering from phthisis? I'm fine. I'm fine. Yang Jian, how long have you severed the Celestial Palace? Over 500 years already. It's been that long, and you don't even have a decent weapon. Sorry that I wasn't thoughtful enough. Your birth father committed an unforgivable crime. The gods showed mercy and let him work in the Heavenly Prison to atone for his crime. Unfortunately, he's after all a mortal. And now, he even made another mistake. Yang Jian, you are his son. Could you do me a favor? Help me persuade him. Persuade him to mend his way. If that demonic monkey gets in your way again, with this Tri-point Double-edged Sword, you'll no longer be outmatched when you fight him. I won't let you down, Star Deity. Come to think of it, this place used to be one of the most prosperous states in the East Land. Do you believe mortals can gain immortality through cultivation? They did. If it hadn't been for Lady Liuli, I'm afraid they would've still been kept in the dark. Liuli? Who's Liuli? She originally was the human side of the Iron Lady Star Deity, and she integrated with her. Being that she couldn't stand what the god side of her did, she transformed into Liuli during the war against gods and fought the god side of her. She's the one I told you who can remove your imprisonment mark. And these are all the war survivors. Because of the deep grudge they've been holding for 100 years, they've become night demons. And they've waited here for another 100 years with the hope of rescuing their loved ones back one day from the hands of the Iron Lady Star Deity. I get it. So you managed to go to the Celestial palace to save us. And this is why. How much longer do we have to stay here? I can't take it anymore. What's the rush? Would you like to drink my urine again to warm up? No. Are there any ghosts? They are coming. They? Who are they? Demons! They are demons! Demons! Iron Lady Star Deity! Hey. That's Liuli. She's not that crazy woman up in the Heaven. Lady Liuli. The sky-patching stone. I heard you have a name now. Patriarch Bodhi said I was unable to concentrate, so he named me Wukong, hoping that I can be focused and aware of Wisdom in Essence. Wukong. Then have you accomplished the mission I asked you to do? Yes. All we need to do now is to wait. This person has a close connection with Qingya Village. But his life is in danger. Lady Liuli, hope you can help him. The Heavenly Imprisonment Mark. She's always like this, trying to control everybody. This stupid man. Why does he have to come at this time? Erlang. Look. It's removed. The imprisonment mark has been removed. Ridiculous. I was wondering who it was. As it turns out it's just an insignificant celestial warrior. He came here to find his father. He's not against Qingya Village. Lady Liuli, he's not a threat to us. Look at him. Do you think he'd let us go? Years ago, you led the people of Qingya to fight against the Celestial Palace. The Star Deity spared you for old time's sake. But instead of repenting of your sin... - See? I'm right, aren't I? - You became a night demon. Since I'm here to capture the demonic monkey, I may as well take down all of you. Stop. I don't believe that I can't kill you. This Tri-point Double-edged Sword can't hurt me. I didn't expect there would be such a powerful divine force hidden in your body. And you didn't even know it yourself. It's a demon's lie. I am a demon. But what are you? Thank about it. You served the Celestial Palace wholeheartedly, yet how did they treat you? Your mother gave birth to you and then discarded you like weeds. She'd rather be buried under the Peach Mountain than meet you and your father. You are lying. Your father ended up suffering miserably in the Heavenly Prison. She made you the different one that everybody despised, bullied, and tortured. She made both you and your father the shame of the world and the thorn in the eye of all people. Have you forgotten all of that? Erlang, don't listen to her. Your mother was buried under the Peach Mountain willingly to protect you. That's it. That's the force I was talking about. And the angrier you get, the more powerful it'll become. Today, let me help you change your fate. Wake up! Your mother is suffering from the pain of tribulation every day for you. She wants you to live a good life, not to belittle yourself. It's impossible. Erlang. Are you okay? I'm fine. The people in the Heavenly Prison have returned. Mother. Brother. Dear, you are finally back. You abandoned humanity for the rules of Heaven, and I abandoned divinity for freedom. I thought I'd completely separated from you, but in the end, I turned into you. Turns out I'm the one who made a mistake. If your mother comes back, our family can also reunite like them. Take care. I'll still be yours in the next life. My dear, I'll wait for you in Qingya. Mother. Mother. Take care. Take care. The path ahead is long and difficult. Promise me you'll keep on going no matter what. Alas, I didn't know your son suffered so much in the Celestial Palace. It wasn't easy for him. Hey, why don't you talk him into coming to Mount Huaguo with me? I... Hey. Erlang, I'll stop running. Bring me back to the Celestial Palace. You finally got out. Why do you want to go back? I Put your mother in trouble. I don't want to do the same to you. Son, hand me over to the Celestial Palace. I wonder if our tree house is still there. What? Do you still remember the way home? Yes. Of course I do. I didn't expect to be back again in this lifetime. You cried a lot when you were little. Your mother would calm you down with this windmill toy. You watched it turn round and round... Who would've thought you'd grow up so quickly. Yeah. So many years have passed. It can be fixed, right? The condition is limited. Let's have a simple dinner tonight. I'll cook something nice for you tomorrow. Come on. Have a taste. See if you like. The Venerable Lord told me my mother is the Goddess of Wind who controls the wind and creates different climates. That's right. Though the wind is intangible, you can feel it everywhere. Every time when the wind blows, I'd feel your mother is right by my side. I finally understand why my mother fell in love with you. Father, it's fixed. Not bad, huh? What's wrong? Erlang, have you thought it through? You should know that we can't escape from them. A mortal will always remain as a mortal. No matter how long he's stayed in the Celestial Palace, his humble nature will never change. - Father. - Huh? The congee is about to dry up. Please go inside and help me adjust the heat. Alright. Yang Jian, how dare you disrespect the power of Heaven and abuse the law? The Star Deity is merciful, and she orders you to take this criminal to come back with me to the Taiyin Hall to plead guilty. Otherwise... So that's how it feels. It's indeed annoying. Fine. I've never liked you anyway. We can fight, but if you destroy anything in my yard, I won't let you off. I tried my best to convince Yang Jian to come back, but instead of admitting his mistake, he insisted on staying with that criminal. He even said you three... He said... Anyway, he was arrogant and out of control. I of course couldn't let him insult you, I... If it hadn't been for his divine weapon, how could an insignificant celestial warrior like him have been able to hurt me? Rebel! Rebel! Yang Jian is such a rebel! Gather our people. Follow me to arrest this evil traitor. Get your weapons. True Lord. - True Lord. - True Lord. Someone, take the True Lord to the divine physician. True Lord. True Lord. - True Lord. - True Lord. True Lord. Look, the Venerable Lord is upright and just. How did he train such a traitor disciple like Yang Jian? If word gets out, the Venerable Lord will be humiliated. Wait, Erlang is not the Venerable Lord's disciple. It's not the Venerable Lord's fault that Erlang stooped to betray. It's just that the Iron Lady Star Deity will soon get out of her closed-door cultivation. We all know her temper. If the Star Deity finds out about this, Erlang will be in big trouble. You two, please speak up. My hearing is bad, and it's hard to tell if you are suggesting something. Fine. I'll go to the Mortal Realm myself. Venerable Lord, wait. Yang Jian is one of us, and he still has a long way to go. Sun Wukong, however, is an outsider. And he's committed a big sin. We should leave a chance to our own kid to make up for his mistake in front of the Star Deity. I know what I'm doing. Good. Good. It's a brilliant idea. Erlang, carrying the basket with one shoulder is wrong. Why? It'll hurt your shoulder. Don't worry. I'm used to carrying it like this. What is that old gentleman doing over there? Sir, what are you doing? Do you need our help? Years ago, I came across this fish, and I liked it very much. So I kept it in a water vat, and I fed it with grain and took care of it every day. But after it grew up, it started to be drawn to the outside world and always tried to leave. My little fish, you thought the outside world was interesting, but you didn't know that you'd die once you left the water. Let me help you. Father, you have difficulty in walking. Please go home first. Let me help this gentleman. Okay. In case he has an accident since he's too heartbroken. Sir, please accept my condolence. Sir, how much longer do I have to carry you? You feel tired already after carrying me only a little while? Don't you remember who carried you on his back all the time when you were little? What? Now that you reunited with your father, you don't need me anymore? Venerable Lord, since I've brought my father here, I won't go back to the Celestial Palace anymore, nor will I let my father return to that horrible prison. Yang Jian, are you really going to be that fish that died of dehydration? Maybe to the fish, being free, even just for a brief time, is better than being confined in that small water vat for the rest of its life. Being free? Sounds like you've met Liuli. You only know that the Iron Lady Star Deity would get whatever she wants by all means, but there were times she also talked about freedom a lot. Her? She's a lofty god. How would she know what freedom really means to all the living beings? She knows it better than anybody does. 100 years ago, the Jade Emperor asked the Star Deity to oversee the Three Realms and the law of life. Later, the Star Deity found out that the human side of her had sympathy for the living beings, and the pity clouded her judgment in a subtle way. She thus decided to keep the god side of her and abandon her human side. And that's how she became the decisive and merciless Star Deity you see today. Unexpectedly, the abandoned human side of her ended up in the Mortal Realm. In the name of freedom, she became the crowd-pleasing Liuli to fight against the Iron Lady Star Deity, the god side of her. You can of course choose to be free, but Sun Wukong has styled himself the Great Sage Equaling Heaven and kept making trouble in the Celestial Palace recently. How's that my concern? Sun Wukong broke your father out of the Heavenly Prison. If no one takes responsibility for it, neither he nor your father can get away with it. You know the Star Deity very well. She wouldn't forgive your father or let this thing go. But if you can convince Sun Wukong to plead guilty, you'll be able to make up for your own mistake. And I'm sure the Star Deity will go easy on Yang Tianyou. What do you say? Kids, I know this guy. You may leave. Come to think of it, I'm known as the Great Sage Equaling Heaven, and I've always been a proud person who's never given a damn to anybody, yet today, I actually ended up in this situation. Yang Jian, are you also here trying to kill me as the Star Deity did? As a celestial warrior, I will do whatever it takes to kill you if you insist on resisting. But as your friend, I want to give you a piece of advice. With all you've done, you satisfied your own needs, but have you ever thought about them? Are you really going to sacrifice their lives for your own pride and stubbornness? Don't let Mount Huaguo become another Qingya. Who's your friend? Pick up your weapon. You bunch of stupid gods. Don't try to fool me. You just can't get over the hatred. You hate yourself for not being able to protect Mount Huaguo. Shut your mouth! You hate that even though you call yourself the Great Sage Equaling Heaven, you are just a monkey born from a stone whom nobody in this world takes seriously. You can't even face yourself. How are you supposed to protect them? Just come with me. No matter what happens, let's face it together. Yang Jian, you were ordered by the Star Deity to go to the Mortal Realm, but you grew fond of it and went astray. Luckily, you realized you were wrong in time, and brought Sun Wukong back to the Celestial Palace. Which can make up for your mistake. Hope you'll conduct yourself well from now on. I'll follow your instruction, Venerable Lord. Rise, please. Wukong, you disregarded laws, repeatedly violated the rules of Heaven, and made a lot of trouble. Will you plead guilty? Now that I'm here, I'm ready to accept any punishment. You should've been severely punished for your evildoing, but given the boundless grace of Heaven and the fact that you are carrying the essence of Heaven and Earth since you were born from the sky-patching stone, you can make amends for your faults by keeping the horses and reflecting on your mistakes for 500 years. Are you willing to accept that? I am. Sun Wukong, kneel and thank the Venerable Lord. I've said it before. I will not kneel to anybody. How outrageous! Celestial warriors, take him. Yes. No need. Wukong, the Star Deity is broad-minded and didn't blame you. Hurry and go to the Horse Stables. Hold it. Sun Wukong, tell me, have you realized the freedom you and Liuli advocated? Bring him. No way to escape. Niu? - No one can get away. - Stand up. We'll be trapped in the Heavenly Prison forever. Stand up. We can never go back. I knew it. You've never planned on letting us go. Yang Jian. Yang Jian, I know for all these years you've been bothered by your demigod identity. This thing is called Nine-reincarnation Immortal Elixir. It can help your father ascent to Heaven, avoid death, and gain immortality. Kill him, and your father will become a god like us. Your mother married a mortal and gave birth to you. If your father becomes a god, no one will criticize her for her crime anymore. And from now on, the gods in Heaven will no longer despise you. Kill him. I've been looked down upon since I was little. I've always dreamed about reuniting with my parents. Your path is over now. But I still have a long way to go. How could there be such a good thing? Mortals will stay mortals forever. They can never gain immorality. Yang Jian, I guess you are not a fool after all. You could've become a god. Why do you have to look for death? Just because you can abandon certain things doesn't mean I can, too. Venerable Lord, I'll leave the rest to you. Erlang, you are destined to go through this tribulation. May you go through it smoothly. Let me out. Let me out. Let me out. Do you see it? This is what he's got for going against Heaven. You taught them to fight for their freedom, but as it turned out, you pushed them into an eternal abyss. No matter it's Sun Wukong or the people in Qingya Village. It's you. You put them in this trouble. I'm not wrong. It's your fault, not mine. I didn't do anything wrong. It's you. They ended up like this because of you. Today, I'll activate the Nine-heaven Thunderbolt and kill this monkey once and for all. I'll let the Three Realms know what order is. I'll let all living beings give up on fighting back. I'll have the entire world bow to Heaven! Erlang, why are you crying? Mom, why do they always bully me? Why am I always the one who's wrong? Come here. Erlang, I feel for you. They once said I was wrong. And then what? And then... And then I had you. You made me the happiest person in this world. I didn't give up back then, so you can't give up either. Yang Jian, I knew you wouldn't die easily. I didn't realize that I actually opened your truth-seeing eye by accident. Iron Lady Start Deity, the god side and the human side should be kept together and never separated. But you, as a goddess, can't even accept who you are, how can you accept all living beings? Nonsense! The mortals are pests who deserve to die. Only gods are the supreme beings in this world. Yang Jian, let me lend you a hand. Yang Jian, charge through. The Celestial Palace is ruthless and you constantly break your word. Today, I'll destroy it and free all living beings from its tyranny. It's the Star Deity's fault. The Celestial Palace has nothing to do with it. If you destroy it, it'll cause chaos to the Three Realms. So what? I'll wipe it out anyway. If you insist on doing this, you'll have to defeat me first. And you all know what happened afterwards. The Sakyamuni Buddha buried me under the Five-finger Mountain for 500 years, asking me to wait for a pilgrim of the Tang Dynasty going to the West to retrieve sutras. A pilgrim who goes to retrieve sutras. So he's a monk. Why should I wait for him? Hey, is it you? A monster! Hey. Hey. Hey. As for Yang Jian... Oh, wait, he's now known as God Erlang, he's still the same, except he has a dog now. Be good. Where are you going? Wait for me.