Transcript for Trois (2000) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [classical string music] [indistinct chatter] One more piece. [all laughing] Oh-ho-ho-ho! Jasmine just got a new car. And she already got me washing. [Jasmine] Uh, over there. Hey, baby. Oh, I missed a spot? [Jasmine] Yeah, behind you. Oh, yeah, right. Oh, this spot right here. [Jasmine screams] That was pretty impressive. [man] You look so beautiful, girl. You think so? [man] I'm so happy I married you. -You sure? -[man] Yeah. Well, I got the job. [Jasmine laughing] Big-time lawyer. We moving up like George and Weezy. Hotlanta, here we come. Ha! -Look at that. -[Jasmine] Whoo! That skyline. Oh, it's gorgeous, honey. [man] For our grandchildren, tell us where we're at. [laughs] Okay, this is it. This is our first house. Well, it's not much to look at, but it's ours, it's ours. [man laughs] Besides, anything beats living in that apartment we been in for the last year. [sighs] I love you. [classical string music continues] [phone ringing] Hello? Hey, baby, it's me. Hey, how's work? Are you gonna be working late again tonight? Work's fine, and I am working late again tonight. I was just calling to see how your grad school applications were going. It's going good. I'm almost finished with Clark. Guess what? What? I got a surprise for you. Oh, yeah? What's that? Remember that little red number we saw in the window. Ha-ha! [giggles] Well, that's all I'm gonna say. I got a surprise for you too. Is that right? Well, does it come in a big package or a small package? It's a real big present. Mmm, how big? Baby, I gotta go, all right? I love you. Hey, Jermaine, here are those files you wanted. Hey, man, just drop them in my box. Bam, all right. Terrance? Yeah? How you doing, man? I know you been clerking for the last two months. I see they're working you pretty hard. You know, workload isn't that bad. Got to start somewhere. Don't hesitate to ask if you need anything, okay? Cool, hey, maybe we can go grab some brews or something. What about after work? I'm putting in a late one tonight man, but I'll take a rain check. How about tomorrow? Cool, all right. [dance music] I knew I'd find you in here. Where's my son? My son's at home where he belongs. That's right, he's home alone, while you in here with these dykes getting fucked up. Yeah, whatever, man. What do you want, and why are you here? I want my son back. What? Now you know that ain't about to happen, Chuck. So get from around me with that madness. What's this about? It's a subpoena. I'm taking you to court. To court? That's right. I'ma get my son back. And I'ma show the judge what type of sorry excuse for a mother you are. [woman] Stay away from my son. [Chuck] You must be out of your fucking mind. Hold up, sister, I got this one. [Chuck] This ain't got nothing to do with you. You can mind your own business. You like beating on women? [punches landing] Ahh! [Chuck] Get the fuck off me. What the fuck is wrong with y'all? Yo, stop, stop, that's enough, that's enough. That's enough. [Chuck] Shit. -[kick landing] -[Chuck grunts] I don't hear you talking shit now, bitch. ♪ God makes me strong Stronger and I-- ♪ Fuck you. You ain't heard the last of me, woman. You better get a lawyer with your broke ass. You know, you are fucking with the wrong one, Charles. I'll see you in court. You got 30 days, 30 days. Take your damn papers with you too. Don't touch me. [Jasmine] Hey, baby. How was work? Long. Looks nice in here. Wait until you taste the dinner that I cooked. I can't wait. I have one request for you. What's that? Let's go straight to dessert. Oh, Jermaine, you're bad. I know. You're bad. I can't help it. Oh! [laughs] [grunting] Slow down, baby. [grunting] You're so beautiful, baby. You're not sleeping, are you? No, I'm not asleep. You thought about what I asked you? What? You know what. [sighs] Look, Jermaine, I told you the last 49 times, I'm not with that, okay? All right, damn. You don't have to be so abrasive. It's not such a big deal. Lots of couples do it, you know? I'm just trying to take our relationship to the next level. Don't you want to be sexually free? I know I do. [laughs] This is not about freedom. This is about you and what you want, Jermaine. -No! -Yes! I'm not giving you permission to sex another woman. That's not what it's about at all. I'm just trying to be open and honest about my sexuality. But you don't even have an open mind about it. We're committed to each other forever. Forever. There should be nothing that we can't experience together. Just forget about it. Fine. So work's going good for you, man? Yeah, yeah, it's cool, thanks to you though. I try, man. You want another beer? Mmm. Excuse me. Can we get another round of brews? Sure. Actually, let me get this round since you got the last two. Hey, um... Rosalyn, scratch them brews. Since my man here is buying, bring us two Jack and cokes. All right, but you ain't driving, is you? Nah, I'ma get you to drive me home. Ah! [laughing] Okay, Tammy, but tell me how the wedding stuff is going. It's going, but my mother is about to worry me to death. I feel you, girl. I don't know if I'll ever forgive you for not being here to help me. I'm trying not to let it worry me but... everybody has their opinion about how they think things should be going. And they saying how marriage changes things. Come on, you know. You're married. Give me the inside scoop. So like I was saying, yo, this long distance relationship stuff, it's getting to me. I mean, I be feeling like my nuts are gonna explode. [laughing] And then when she does come to town, I gotta struggle just to get her to get a little freaky. You know what I'm s--? I be trying to tie her up and stuff and all that. And she'd be acting all scared. But I'm like, "Look, hold up, if I'm gonna try and get all into you, then you gotta come correct." You know what I'm saying? I mean, you got to satisfy me on the real. I mean, we have fun. But the sex, hmmm... I mean, it's good, but I don't know, I just... I guess I just... I wish that Jermaine would hold me more, touch me more, take his time. I mean, I know he really loves me. But I don't think he knows what I really like. I totally agree. I tried to tell my wife the same thing. I mean, I love my wife, but I want to feel like I could be free and uninhibited with her, you know? You know how men are sometimes. They treat us just like a ride. They get on, get the thrill, get off, the ride's over. -[laughs] -Right. Now I know the married life has you getting it all the time. I mean it's not like y'all have anything else to do. Man... [scoffs] Fuck it, you don't know her. Sex is straight. I mean, when I don't have to mow the lawn or wash her fucking car to get some, you know? [laughing] Girl, I knew there was something I meant to tell you. How about my man has been trying to get me to do it in the booty? I'm like, "Hold on, freak nasty, could you save something for the honeymoon?" Wait a minute, they must be reading the same book. I mean Jermaine hasn't asked me to do something like that but... What I really want is a ménage à trois. A ménage à trois? Ménage à trois. Ménage à trois. Yeah, ménage à trois. Damn, girl, I ain't know it was like that. Yeah, I mean, he's been bugging me about it for the past two months. I mean, come on, Tammy, how do I look letting him do something like that? That's just me letting him, or giving him permission to sex another woman. Not necessarily, it really depends on the understanding that you have with your man. Girl, you talk like you've done something like that before. She be tripping. She thinks I'm out trying to sex other women. That's not it. I've been down that road before, and I don't want to go there again. I just want to get fine and freaky with my wife. Girl, you didn't. I did, once, a long time ago. You a little freak. Hey, hey, but if you really want to go that route, I mean, if you really serious, oh, I know the perfect girl. -[Jermaine] Yeah? -Mmm. Well, what's her story? Afterwards, did you think you were like...? Gay? Hell, no. A little bit on the wild side but not gay, okay? I love my man, girl. Hey, quiet is kept, it was kinda live. Really? She used to waitress at this strip club I used to go to. We used to kick it when she was on break. [Jermaine] Yeah. Oh, my God, tight, pretty as she wants to be. She's got a little shorty, but she probably be down. But anyway, it's up to you. You know, if it were me, I would do whatever it took to make my man happy. Besides, he is your husband. I know, Tammy, but I mean, that's out there. Well, if you don't want to do that then do something else to distract him something else kinky like tie him up, table dance, strip, anything. Yeah, yeah. Tell me something. What was it really like? Ooh, I saw you check out that girl. Ahh... Yeah, mmm. -You like that? -Yeah. -There's some drinks in the fridge. -Mm-hmm. Make yourself comfortable. I'll make myself at home. Yeah, and I'm gonna check up on Derrick. All right. Hey, Derrick, I'm home. Hey. You been drinking. Well, you know your mama loves you. [man on radio] And the question of the day would be... [woman on radio] How far would you go to please your mate? [man on radio] Caller, you're on the line. What's your name, and where you calling from? [woman 2 on radio] Divine, Decatur. This shorty right here, you best believe, would do it all for her baby. So all you uptight, sophisticated women, you better watch out, 'cause you don't take care of your man, someone like me will. [woman on radio] Girl, I got your back. I'm feeling you 'cause, if you don't take care of it, you know another lady's gonna step right in. -[Terrance] Hey, Jermaine. -Hey. [Terrance] I got this fax from Williams, Russel, and Johnson. They're your clients? Yeah, I'm working on their contracts right now. They're designing the building over on Spring Street. I needed this, thank you. Hey, Terrance, you want to come over this weekend and watch the game, man? At your house? Yeah, I'll have the wife cook up some vittles. We could just hang out. You can bring your girl. Got plans this weekend, man, but when my lady comes back in town, we'll see. [knocking on door] I'll talk to you later. How are you? Just fine, just fine. Terrance, I've been hearing great things about you. Keep up the good work, and you just might end up like Jermaine. [laughing] [Terrance] Thank you, sir. Thomas, how you doing? Oh, just fine. [Jermaine] What can I do for you today? The rumor going around is that you are next in line for the big case. Are you kidding me? I'll fill you in later. All right, all right. [chuckling] [crickets chirping] [inhales deeply] No. [loud whoosh] -[mutters] -[loud whoosh] [gasps] What's wrong, baby? Just hold me, baby. You having one of your nightmares again? I wish you'd talk to me about it. I want to help. I just want to block it out, okay? I just want to find out what's happening with my wife. Can we just not fight tonight? Who's fighting? All you tell me is that you having nightmares about some old boyfriend. Please? No, I work hard every day, baby, to support us so you can go back to school. And you won't even talk to me. [sighs] You know, it's real frustrating. I'm your husband. -You know? -I'll do it. And I don't think it's fair that, you know...? What? I said I'll do it. Are you talking about what I think you are? When did this happen? Hmm? How long have you felt this way? I don't know. I've been thinking about it for a few weeks. And you're right. You have been wonderful, supportive. I know I haven't been easy to deal with lately. And if it's what it takes to make you happy, then okay. All right. Are you sure you wanna do this? Yes, baby. Promise me one thing. That this is about us, and not about you and some other woman. I promise. I love you, baby. You're the most beautiful woman. I love you. [Thomas] Jermaine. Good morning, Thomas, how are you today? Oh, just fine, just fine. Now you know your presentation is in a couple of weeks, right? Yes, so what do I have to do? I left the information on your desk. There's a lot of material to absorb, but you have the whole weekend. Great, I'll have the preliminaries for you on Monday. That's what I wanted to hear. All right. Terrance, excuse me, can I talk to you for a minute? [Terrance] Yeah. Excuse me. -What's going on? -Oof. Yeah, she fine as hell and she don't have a man either. Listen, remember what I was talking to you about before, about the girl you know? Yeah, why? No, you don't mean...? -Yeah, she's with it. -Ah, dog. So, what's up with your girl, man? I don't know. Um, I'll talk to her. But you know, you sure you don't need a brother like me to join in, and do another love love? No, fool, just set it up with the girl. All right, all right, I'm playing. But for real, you know, you gonna let a brother join in? I'm playing with you, I'm playing with you. Let me call her, and we can set up a meeting for after work. Are you sure she hasn't been here already? Nah. Mm-mm. She's not one of these girls stand around here? No, she said she'd be here around 8:30. She's just a little late. She got, you know... [Jermaine] What's taking her so long, man? We've been here forever. She probably had babysitting problems. Here she comes now. [Jermaine] Oh, she is fine. Hey, lady. Hey, Terrance. Mmm. [giggles] Jermaine, this is Jade. Jade... [chuckles] Jermaine. Hmm. [Jermaine] Nice to meet you. So this is the guy that's gonna pay me to fuck him and his wife. Yeah, see what he's got-- Hey, hold up. I didn't hear nothing about paying. Look, nigga, if you gonna do this, it's gonna cost you. Well, so what are you, a prostitute or something? No, I just got to take care of some business. See, Jade got some court issues with her baby's daddy. Don't be putting my shit out there. Relax, old boy's a lawyer. Yeah? Yeah, but back to the money issue. How much are we talking here? A thousand. A thousand? You're smoking. Why you wasting my time with this, Terrence? Hey, you said you were in a bind. I was just looking out. [Jade] Whatever, man. Wait, wait, wait. My wife can't know that I paid you. Whatever. No, I'm serious, never. No problem. [laughs] So when can we hook up? Tomorrow. -[Jermaine] Yeah? -Yeah. I'm assuming that, since I'm paying, anything goes. It's all good, as long as she's comfortable. Hey, hey, hey, hey, now, you know I can always join in and help y'all work things out. No. She'll be fine. Just make sure I get my money's worth. I wouldn't even have to participate. I could just, you know, cheer y'all on. No. [Jade] Got you. Y'all meet me at First Fridays tomorrow night. I'll handle the rest. Hey, hey, I know y'all want the memories. I could film it. -No! -No! Damn, all right. Y'all some selfish folks. [laughs] So how do we get in contact with you? Is there a number? Terrance knows how to reach me. [Terrance] So come on, give me some details. [Jermaine] All right, it took a little time, you know. Jasmine was at home. She was kind of nervous. I didn't know you were trying to do it tomorrow, Jermaine. We're not doing it tomorrow. We're just meeting her. I mean, who is she? How do you even know this woman? We don't know her. That's what we're gonna find out. We gotta get to know each other. It's gonna be cool, okay? [Terrance] So she didn't want to do it right away? [Jermaine] Not at all, man, not at all. She was very apprehensive. But after we got to the club, club is real nice. Nice place! She was still apprehensive but she started to come around a little bit. ♪ You don't ever stray no more, no, no ♪ ♪ Don't you ever take your love away ♪ ♪ Oh, my baby, I need you here today ♪ [crowd cheering] Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Let's give it up for Miss Keanna Henson and the Chronicle. [Jermaine] And out of nowhere, Jade comes walking in. Nice to see you again, Jermaine. Jasmine, this is Jade. Jade, this Jasmine. Nice to meet you. You too. [laughs] Why don't you go get us some drinks, hmm? All right, I'll be right back, baby. [Jade] I know you're nervous, but it's cool. Does it show that much? [Jade] Yeah, but it's understandable. But look at it like this, niggas are simple to please. They only need three things in life, to eat, sleep, and to fuck. How do you like Atlanta? I know you haven't been here too long. It's okay. So what do you do here, you go to school? I applied to grad school. I'm waiting to hear now. [Jade] Oh, yeah? I want to work with battered women. Oh, that's cool, that's cool. So where'd you go to school before? I went to Tennessee for a couple of years, and then I finished at home. Where's home? Birmingham. Ahh. So why did you drop out? Did you get pregnant or something? [laughs] Oh, you know, I mean, that's what happened to me. See, I got mixed up with a immature guy that was a baseball player, and he got drafted, I got pregnant, so I had to drop out. And you? I was in a bad relationship I needed to get away from. So you have a child? Yeah, yeah, Derrick. He's four going on 44. That's my little man. I love him to death. -Ooh. -What's up Jade? [Jade] Hey. So you gonna get up with me later or what? Ahh. We'll see. Oh, it's like that? [laughs] I said we'll see. Call me later. All right, by the way, my name is Robert. [laughs] Jasmine. I would have introduced myself a little sooner, but I figured that Jade-- Get out of my business, Robert. It was good meeting you, lady. You too. Girl, is he your man? He's cute. Nah, he's just another piece. But he's cool, he's cool. That's some piece. Here you go, baby. Thanks. Hey, you guys like to dance? Yeah. [Jade] So why don't we get out of here? I know a place we can get our groove on. Okay. Hey, aren't we moving a bit too fast? I mean, we just got here. No, relax, boo. You gonna get your money's worth, trust me. [Terrance] So they must have hit it off pretty well? [Jermaine] Apparently so. Next thing I know, we were at the other club having a great time. [Jade] Hey, I'll be back. [Jermaine] All right. What's up, baby, you sitting all alone? She's with me. Excuse me? I said... she's with me. Oh, shit, well, can I be with y'all? Get the fuck out of here. All right, all right, it's cool, it's cool. Well, check this out, here go my card. Why don't you give me a call just in case you wanna throw some dick up in there a little later on? Bye. [hip-hop music] ♪ Give my mama want she want Send her overseas ♪ So why you are you over here? I thought you said you like dancing. I just... I'm over just, you know, chilling. Dang, I hear you, but it is the weekend, you are young and beautiful. Besides, mmm... if my man was that fine, I wouldn't let another ho be up on him like that. Mm-mm. Right. You right. I'ma go out there and show him who's really running things. [giggling] You go, girl. Yeah. ♪ But when I was always driving harder ♪ ♪ Got my cities driving from the east to the west ♪ ♪ Got less, knock on wood I pass the test ♪ ♪ Now all my brothers just feel that stress ♪ ♪ Superstitious ♪ Superstitious ♪ Which is what you get fired up ♪ ♪ Till you feel the heat from the sip, burning up ♪ ♪ It's all about skills to pay the bills, yes, sir ♪ ♪ You make them feel superstitious ♪ ♪ Which is what you get fired up ♪ ♪ Till you feel the heat from the sip, burning up ♪ ♪ It's all about skills to pay the bills ♪ ♪ Yes, sir Make them feel superstitious ♪ ♪ Which is what you get fired up ♪ ♪ When you feel the heat from the sip burning up ♪ ♪ It's all about skills to pay bills, yes, sir ♪ ♪ Make them feel superstitious ♪ Which is what you get fired up ♪ ♪ When you feel the heat from the sip burning up ♪ ♪ It's all about skills to pay the bills ♪ All right, now we 'bout to slow it down for all y'all players, so y'all can get y'all grind on. -♪ Come on and slow dance -♪ Come and slow dance -♪ I wanna slow dance -♪ Come on and slow ♪ Yes, with you, hold you close while dancing slow ♪ ♪ When you slow dance, baby -♪ I wanna slow dance -♪ I just wanna slow dance ♪ So, baby, come and slow dance ♪ ♪ With me, yeah, ohh ♪ Dancing with you to an up-tempo groove ♪ ♪ Is oh so nice ♪ Watching you work your body ♪ Doing your thing drives me crazy ♪ ♪ But, woman, it turns me on ♪ One on one, up close and personal, flowing... ♪ ♪ A ménage à trois ♪ ♪ All I really need is you ♪ You, only you ♪ I don't really need to play around, baby ♪ ♪ I just wanna be with you, you ♪ ♪ Only you ♪ There's something I gotta say Just don't walk away ♪ ♪ I'm not gonna keep it inside no more, no, baby ♪ ♪ We been friends for so very long, but we're strong ♪ ♪ Tonight I'm asking you to stay ♪ ♪ Stay, please stay, you see ♪ I don't really need a ménage à trois ♪ ♪ All I really need is you, you ♪ ♪ Only you ♪ I don't really need to play around, baby girl ♪ ♪ I just wanna be with you ♪ Only you ♪ Your eyes say I'm playing games, so you turn away ♪ ♪ I don't want to just get next to you, no, baby ♪ [piano music] [sighs] [Jermaine] Damn, how long you been up? [Jasmine] A while. What's the matter, baby? I don't know, Jermaine, I feel crazy. I know things got a little out of hand last night, baby, but relax, it's okay now. I guess I just need to know how you feel. About what? Last night? Us? What? Everything. I feel like the luckiest man on Earth. [laughs] I couldn't be happier. I mean, I have a beautiful wife who understands me, who's willing to do anything for me. I couldn't ask for more. So you don't think any less of me? No, baby, you know I don't. It's all about you. It better be. Always. Okay. I love you, baby. Mmm. I love you too. I can't believe you didn't complete your assignment. I mean, the presentation is only a couple of weeks away, and you had the entire weekend. I know, I just... I had some personal issues to deal with. Listen, man, I know things happen. But no one is gonna care when you're standing up in front of Wilson. Now you mess up, you can kiss this Fletcher case goodbye. I know. I'm sorry, I'll work it out. You do that. Because I worked hard getting them to give you a chance, young blood. And I'm not gonna let you mess it up for all of us. [sighs] Tammy. [Tammy] Hey, you, what's up? [Jasmine] Nothing, what you doing? Girl, just got off the phone with the caterer, trying to decide on a menu for this reception. What's going on with you? [Jasmine] Nothing. I'm just calling. Okay, what's wrong? It happened. [Tammy] What? It happened. You did it? Yeah. So how was it? I mean, is there a problem, did something go wrong? No, it wasn't like that. No, it was... It was. Was there a problem? What happened? I mean, is he...? Okay, let me guess. He wants to do it again, and you're not down. No, no, no, no, we're fine. Tammy, let me ask you a question. How'd you feel afterwards? I don't know. I mean, I guess I was cool. I don't really think about it. So how's Jermaine? I mean, is he straight? He paid more attention to me then than when it's just us. I wish he was that into me, when it's just, you know, me and him, without all this craziness. I don't know, I think we just need to step back from all this sex and get into each other emotionally. Mentally. Whoa, okay, you just said a lot. Now first of all, I think that you and Jermaine should sit down and have a talk, and you tell him how you really feel about this whole thing. And besides, you know how men get. They go into withdrawal when you take the pussy away. [sighs] Hey, baby, how was work? Let's talk about something else. That good, huh? How was your day? It was fine, but you look tired. I am tired. Is there anything I can do to make it better? Yeah, you know what will make it better. No, Jermaine. You just asked me if there's anything you could do to make it better. Yeah, but I didn't mean sex, okay? Man comes home from a hard day at work and gotta listen to this shit from his wife. What's the problem, Jermaine? Huh? It's not that serious. Not for you, but it is for me. It's like I gotta jump through fucking hoops to get some. Or you just want a brother to hold you. Next thing I hear is that I'll have to bring a woman in her before you'll get freaky. You know what? Whatever, Jermaine, okay? Your perverted ass ain't about to have me hanging from the ceiling every damn night. Perverted ass? [Jasmine] Yeah. You act like I was the only one in here the other night. Well, it was your idea. You know what? I don't have to listen to this shit. Jermaine, where you going? Jermaine? Jermaine, don't slam-- [door slams shut] [Terrance] What's up, man? Don't you have a home, man? I see you here all the time. Talk to me. How was it? Was what? Ooh, what's eating Gilbert Grape? How was your weekend? I don't even wanna talk about my weekend. I had the worst Monday ever, man. I almost lost my case. Thomas is up my ass. I can't even think straight. The weekend, man, come on. Man. How was it? The weekend was... -It was great. -Uh-huh. Yeah. -It was a fantasy come true, yeah. -I know it was. -Yeah. -So come on, give me some details. -All right, well... -Mm-hmm. Yeah. I mean, the next morning we all felt so close to each other, you know. Mmm. It was live. So, what now? What, what now? Is she gay? Is who gay? Jasmine, your wife. You said she got down with Jade, and they were all into it. So is she gay? Ahh! Nah, she ain't gay, man. It's just one of those things that happens. [Terrance] Okay, I just know that women get into each other, and they get close in ways that we can't. So I just wasn't sure. Well, I'm sure, all right? All right, calm down. No, I'm just looking out for you, that's all. Oh, you're looking out for me? Yeah. So you think she might want to do it again? I don't know, maybe. I mean with another guy this time? What? You're fucking bugging. Seriously, and I'm not talking about me. I'm talking about you being fair. If she wanted to do it again with you and another guy, would you be down like she was down? Hell, no, another nigga and my lady? Fuck that. See, now how you sound? You want her to please you, but if she wanted it, you wouldn't be down? You know what? I completely forgot the time. I gotta get. Cool. Mmm. [cries out] [crying] Jermaine. Jermaine! Jasmine. Jazz, I'm home. I know you here, baby. Jazz? Baby? Jasmine? Jazz? Come on, baby, I don't want to play tonight. I'm sorry, baby. I'm sorry. [crickets chirping] [piano music] [women laughing] What the hell? Isn't this what you wanted? No! [gasps] Jasmine. Jasmine! Hey. Morning, Kelly, how you doing? Oh, I'm fine. Good, good. Yeah, I mean, listen, I was wondering if you had spoken with Jasmine. Hey, Michelle, good morning. Good morning, Dolly. Camille? This is Jermaine. [phone ringing] Hello? Hi, this is Jermaine. [laughs] How are you doing? I haven't spoken to you in a hot minute. I've been okay. I don't know why you calling me at 599 in the morning. I know, I'm sorry. I shouldn't even be asking you. It's a stupid question. But is Jasmine over there? And what if she is? Is my wife over there? You should have never walked out on her. Put my wife on the phone. She'll call you when she's ready. What? Put my wife on the phone. [phone beeps off] Hello, hello? [phone ringing] [deep male voice] Please leave a message. Hello, Jade, it's me. Could you please put Jasmine on the phone? Jasmine, if you can hear me, please pick up the phone. Jasmine, please, come on, baby. I don't want to play no games. Would you please just pick up the phone? Jade, you know this ain't right. Hello? Hello, could you pick up the fucking phone please? Hello? Ah, fuck! You hungry, Jazzy? I made you breakfast. It's okay. I... I think I should be getting home. You go home when you're ready. You don't have to take nothing from him. He knows where you are, and you see, he hasn't called you back. [deep male voice] Leave a message. [piano music] So what do I do, Ms. Paul? I don't want him to take my son. I understand that. But to be perfectly honest, it doesn't look good. You're a single mother. You're young, black, openly bisexual, and you don't have a steady income. Now, Judge Cummings is one of the toughest in the system. But I love my son, and he's always taken care of. I know that. But you cannot leave him home alone because you don't have money for day care. He's only four. Hey. Baby. I'm so sorry for the way I've acted. It's okay, baby. I'm sorry. Nothing happened last night, did it? No. Nothing at all? No, it wasn't like that. I woke up... I was scared, I was alone, I just needed somebody to talk to. I went over there. I fell asleep. Okay. I don't know what I've gotten us into. I just want it to be like it was, you know? Just you and me. I don't want anything to happen to us. Baby, promise me you won't ever call her again. Promise me. You don't need her. You can talk to me. I know I haven't always been there, especially lately. But I'm trying, okay? I'm trying to be the best friend, the only friend that you'll ever need. Please, baby, promise me, hmm? I promise. [upbeat music] What's wrong with you? I need to find a babysitter for Derrick this weekend, and I can't find anyone. Why? I mean, he always stays there by himself. Yeah, but I'm trying to do stuff differently now. You know I got that court thing. And I don't want to take any chances. No telling what Charles will do. Hmm, well, I got an idea. Why don't you call Jasmine? I mean, she seems like a homebody. [phone ringing] I'll get it. Good evening. May I please speak to Jasmine? Whom may I say is calling? Jade. Listen, I thought I asked you not to call here anymore. You know, she can make her own decisions. She's a grown woman. I'm not trying to control her. I am just... Look, I'd appreciate it if you left us alone. I'm trying to be nice, Jade, but you're pushing me into a fucking corner. Whatever, you're just mad because I turned her out. Now put her on the phone! What? You fucking nut bitch. I don't have to listen to this shit. Fuck you, Jermaine! I didn't call for you. I need to ask Jasmine a question. You don't have to ask us shit. Now stop harassing us. What? You think I'm harassing you? You ain't seen shit yet. Is that a threat? Are you threatening me? 'Cause I can just take this up with Judge Cummings. What'd you say? That's right, I happen to know the judge that's trying your custody case. I've done a little investigating. I know a lot about you, Jade. And I think you should play it cool and not call around here anymore. Fuck you! Don't try me! Fuck, no! Don't try me! Who was on the pone? Uh, it was a wrong number, baby. Anyway we gotta play to catch, Mrs. Davis. [grunting and yelling] What the hell is going on in here? [Jade] Don't fuck with me. I'm not in the mood. [grunting and yelling] [Robert] Jade, Jade, relax. Don't touch me! Why, what's wrong now? Just get out. I said get out now! I'm not going nowhere until you explain all of this. What? -[Robert] Jade. -[gun cocks] [Jade] I am sick and tired of you guys -always telling me what the hell to do. -You are crazy. I'm out. [moaning] I'm glad you like it. [suspenseful music] [dog barking] I tried to be nice. We can do it your way. [piano music] Miss Owens, I know it's difficult being a single parent these days, and for that, I admire your courage. However, given the current circumstances, it is my belief that Derrick will be better off in a stable environment where there's a steady income and attention given to him. No. No, you cannot take my son. Mr. Givens has assured the court that he and his wife can provide such an environment. However, given his hectic baseball schedule and notorious temper, his word provides the court little comfort. So what do you mean? What do we... what? Clam down, Jade, you're not making things easy. No! My judgment is to take the child as ward of the state, custody pending on the investigation of the lifestyle of the father and the change of financial income of the mother. This decision is effective immediately. Derrick! No, you can't take my son! You can't take my son! -No, no! -Order. Order, Ms. Givens. No, you can't have my son. [whimpering] Ms. Givens, order or I'll have you removed from the court. [Jade] No! [sobbing] I hate you, Charles, I hate you, I hate you! [gavel banging] [rock music] ♪ Don't go away ♪ Don't go away, yeah ♪ Don't go away, don't go ♪ Where can you take him? Where you gonna go? ♪ ♪ Don't take him Where you gonna go? ♪ ♪ Where can you take him? Where you gonna go ♪ ♪ Don't go away ♪ Don't go away ♪ Don't go ♪ Don't leave me ♪ Where did you go? Where did you? ♪ ♪ Where did you go? ♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah [dramatic music] Terrance, let me talk to you for a minute. -What's up? -What's up with your girl? -Jade? -Yeah, that fucking dyke. She slashed my tires and egged my car. -What, Jade? -What is wrong with her? Yo, I don't know. Like I told you, I met her at the club. She seemed cool. Well, she's not. Damn. Yo, I feel bad, bro. You feel bad? Look at my fucking car. I guess you never know how people gonna act when they get all up in your business. You know what I'm saying? What do you mean by that? I'm just saying it's like you put yourself out there, and you never know. I mean, people are crazy. Now you tell me. Oh, thanks. Yo, I gotta bounce. Call me if you need something all right? Yeah, thanks. -For real. -All right. Jermaine, good to see you. Mr. Wilson, good to see you too, sir. Looking forward to your presentation tomorrow. Thank you, I'll see you then. I'm sure it was her, officer. [officer] What proof do you have that it was her? Proof? Her barrette. I found her barrette. [officer] How do you know this woman? Through a mutual friend. [officer] Okay, now what's the motive, sir? Motive? [officer] Yeah, why would she want to do this? Just forget it. I'll call you back. What's wrong? Why'd you hang up on him? What am I supposed to tell him? That I paid some woman to have sex with me and my wife, and now she's stalking me? Wait a minute. You paid her? What is she, a prostitute, Jermaine? How many other women have you paid for sex? Nobody, Jasmine. All I know is that the bitch is crazy. And I'm going over there. No, you let me talk to her. You? Yeah, me. 'Cause you'll go over there, and you'll have us all looking like we're crazy. Now, Jasmine, I'm gonna handle this, okay? Trust me. Don't think I forgot about you paying her ass for sex either. Why you do that, Jade? What are you talking about? Why did you take money for sex and slash my man's tires? You know he just called the police. The cops? [sobbing] That's all I need. They took my son. What? Who? He's gone. He's gone. That's why I needed the money. So I can keep him. They took my son, and he's gone. I would never do anything to hurt you. I know you wouldn't, Jade. [crying] I think it's a good time for an intermission. I've ordered lunch. I hope everyone likes Chinese. Very impressive so far. [Jermaine] Thank you. Hope this is lo mein. [dramatic music] [man] Good Lord. [all groaning] [woman screams] My God! [engine starts] [upbeat music] ♪ I been think about how it would be ♪ ♪ Just to have you... [dramatic music] Ah! Ah, what the fuck is this? Oh, my God. [groans] Fuck! [yells] [tires squealing] [grunting] [woman] Are you all right? Let me check for his pulse. [sirens approaching] [rock music] [man] Jacqueline Owens? Yeah? Detective Anderson, this is Detective Smith. We're with the Atlanta Police Department. Here. So what's this all about? Look, you already took my son. I ain't got nothing else. This is a restraining order. You are hereby ordered to stay at least 200 feet away from Mr. and Mrs. Jermaine Davis. Otherwise, you will be arrested. What grounds do you have to do this shit to me, huh? Mr. Davis had an accident. He believes his safety is in jeopardy. Oh, he had an accident. Hmm. I guess he ain't dead. No, he isn't dead. He'll be fine. You have a real good day, Ms. Owens. [rock music] Yeah, well, we'll see about that. ♪ Never get the best of me School starts next week. I cannot wait. You are gonna knock them dead, baby. [laughs] [phone ringing] Hello? May I speak with Jermaine please? Who's calling? Roz. Who's Roz? I have no idea. This is Jermaine. [laughs] What's up? It's Terrance. Hey, what's up, man? Thought you was some ho. No, I had to get Roz to make the call 'cause you know they be tripping about letting folks use the phone. -Tricky, tricky. -You okay or what? I mean, I know you got bit by a damn anaconda and shit, but damn. You ain't been to work in like a week and a half. Yeah, I'm doing much better. I've been taking some time off from work, just hanging out with my lady, you know how it is. [doorbell rings] So how's work, man? Oh, my God, you know they got jokes, right? You know we gonna clown you when you get there right? They still talking about all that nonsense? [Terrance] Come on. That went down. What Chinese food restaurant was that? That's all I want to know. What's that, baby? Somebody sent me a tape special delivery. [Jermaine] Well, are you moving up in the company, man, or what's going on? So, what else is going on? [piano music] Jermaine? Jermaine? I'll call you back. [hip-hop music] [laughs] -Where did this come from? -[sighs] Where did this come from? Explain to me how I get a tape of you fucking some bitch in my car... that I paid for. Baby, that was a long time ago. Don't start that! That was a long time ago. I didn't buy that car until after we were married. I know, but that was then. I was going through a lot of shit back then. Okay, I deserve that. I'm sorry. Jermaine, I deserve better. I stood by you when your ass was broke. And I put up with you bitching about work every night. And I even let you bring another woman into my bed. You had me doing things that I knew were wrong. You had me thinking I was gay or some damn super freak. But you know what? Not anymore. I can do better by my damn self. What are saying? [Jasmine] I'm saying I'm leaving you. No. [Jasmine] Fuck that. No. Fuck that, I can't trust you. I know I messed up. I know I mess up, I'm sorry. -No, fuck that! -But we can work this out. No, we can't! [shouting] Fuck you! Just leave, just stay away from me! [sobbing] How could you do this? I'm sorry. We can work through this. I don't even know you anymore. Please, don't leave me. I don't even know you anymore. Please, baby, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, just sleep on it. Sleep on it, okay? I'm gonna fix this. I'm gonna fix this. I'll leave, I'll leave, don't leave me, promise me. [sobbing] Don't go. [sobbing continues] Where are you going, Jermaine? [door closes] [knocking on door] [Jade] Who is it? Jade. It's me, Jermaine. We need to talk. What do we have to talk about? It's real important. It'll only take a minute. Just let me in. What do you want? [dramatic music] What's wrong with you? Huh? Huh? -You crazy bitch. Bitch. -[slaps landing] You want to fuck with me, huh? You want to fuck with me--? [grunting] [dramatic music] [grunting] [thunder crashing] Baby, please don't leave. Please don't. What did you do, Jermaine? Nothing. I just need you beside me tonight, okay? [door creaking] What was that? [dramatic music] What? What was what? I think you should go check that out. [thunder crashes] Baby, I think the power went out. I'm gonna get some candles. [thunder rolling] Who left the damn door open? Call 911! [grunting] The phone, shit. The gun. [punches landing] [punch lands] Stop right there! I swear to God I'll kill you. Oh. [laughing] Hey, Jazzy! [laughs] I told you I'd find your ass. What? And don't think you could ever leave me. 'Cause I will find your ass. The guy from my nightmares. Terrance? [thunder rolling] Want to come over this weekend and watch the game, man? Got plans this weekend, man. Who's Roz? Nah, I had to get Roz to make the call 'cause you know they be tripping about letting folks use the phone. You put yourself out there, and you never know. I mean, people are crazy. [laughing] Thought I'd never see you again. Well, you thought wrong, baby. Oh, come on, girl. Baby, don't you know the trouble I went through so we could be together? Huh? I followed your ass to damn Atlanta, the ATL. Took a job with that bullshit law firm. Oh, and get this. I'm hanging out with the motherfucker that's making love to my fucking woman. I can't believe this shit. Shut the fuck up already. Please, Eric. You don't have to do this. Eric? Why not? Baby, I came here to claim what's mine. I still love you, baby. I made you something. I messed up the Y. I'm sorry, baby. I love you, girl. He don't love you. He don't appreciate you. [laughs] Come on, baby, you're supposed to be his wife. And he gonna bring another woman into your bed? Another woman? And then didn't I show you the tape of him with another ho? And you still don't get the picture? He must have you brainwashed. Ain't that right? [laughs] So, um... Since I'm the only sane motherfucker here, let's end this shit right motherfucking now. No! [gun clicks] Safeties. [laughs] -[Jermaine screams] -No! -[crashing] -[grunting] -[gun fires] -[body thumps] Oh, my God. [Jermaine] Jasmine, Jasmine! Baby, don't do this to me. No! [Jermaine] Baby. [whimpering] Look what you did. Look what you fucking did! Call 911! Come on, baby. Come on, fight, baby, please. No, baby, Jazz... [Jermaine] Fight, baby, please, please, come on. [crying] [screaming] We all gotta die now. Fuck me! We all gotta die now. Call 911, man! It's too late. She's already gone. You wanna kill me? You wanna fucking kill me? Come on then! Kill me, big man. That's right, shoot me, motherfucker. Shoot me, man! [gun fires] You? You thought you could put your hands on me, and I wouldn't come and get you, huh? Jade, don't shoot me. I didn't know. I thought it was you. [laughs] Right. You gotta help me. My wife is dying. Call an ambulance, please. I'll do anything. Please? Okay. Your phone is dead. There's a cell phone in the drawer on the right. Come on, come on, hold on, hold on. Come on, baby, hold on. Hold on, baby, come on, hold on. In light of the new evidence presented by Attorney Davis, I hereby reinstate custody of Derrick Givens to Ms. Jade Owens. Oh! Thank you, God. Oh-ho-ho! Damn! Thank you so much. Don't sweat it. I owed you one. [laughs] Oh! [Derrick] Mommy! Oh, my baby, my baby. Oh, look at you, look at you. [Jermaine] How you doing? Making it. And you? Same. Congratulations on winning the case. It was really good of you to help her out. I hear you're setting up an abuse center on campus. Yeah, finally getting to spread my wings a little bit. Right. I got the divorce papers from your lawyer. Are you sure that we can't work this out? Can't we make it like it used to be? I love you. But it can never be the way it used to be. [somber piano music] [hip-hop music] ♪ Yeah, yeah ♪ Off the hook, off the hook ♪ Now we done talked half the night, let's hook up later ♪ ♪ Meet outside at five in your red Navigator ♪ ♪ Hate your money-hungry ways but I love your looks ♪ ♪ And how you swinging that ass keeps me the off the hook ♪ ♪ I'm shook glass is a grand Money continued ♪ ♪ Put me on my ass live with these vibes I send you ♪ ♪ Centerfold sex goddess like a Playboy Bunny ♪ ♪ If you had my clientele you'd make more money ♪ ♪ See, Pusher D's known for taking hold of ♪ ♪ Ho's rolling the dice, hitting sevens, taking control of ♪ ♪ Situations like this with these asses and tits ♪ ♪ Getting ho's players' money for these passing hits ♪ ♪ Your vibe's so fly I can't wait till I ♪ ♪ I get you in sexy mood ♪ Your body gonna wanna do, yeah ♪ ♪ It's gonna be the best night of your life ♪ ♪ I can't lie, girl ♪ You're so fine Yeah, yeah, yeah ♪ ♪ Sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ Damn near paid my money ♪ And if it tight true ♪ Player getting nothing but love tonight ♪ ♪ I wanna touch you ♪ You're sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I wanna fuck you ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ You're like honey I'm just like a bee ♪ ♪ I gotta get you to my hive ♪ One on one with my sex drive, yeah ♪ ♪ Up against the wall and all over the floor ♪ ♪ You're gonna scream for more ♪ That's what you came here for ♪ ♪ Sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I damn near made my money ♪ And if it tight true ♪ Player getting nothing but love tonight ♪ ♪ I wanna touch you ♪ You're sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I wanna fuck you ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ I got my mind on my money and my eyes on your cot ♪ ♪ You're sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ But don't plan on my not ♪ True indeed that I got eyes for you ♪ ♪ I'm tired fiving your dime for you ♪ ♪ I watch you dance 'cause I'm caught in a trance ♪ ♪ But don't mistake my mission ♪ Pusher D invite no chickens ♪ So iffen we get to ♪ The crib, and I'm in the kitchen ♪ ♪ It's strictly 'cause we clicking ♪ ♪ And your body's finger licking ♪ ♪ Yeah, I'm caviar dreaming and Cadillac wishing ♪ ♪ Sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ And if it tight true ♪ Player getting nothing but love tonight ♪ ♪ I wanna touch you ♪ You're sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I wanna fuck you ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ Sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ And if it tight true ♪ Player getting nothing but love tonight ♪ ♪ I wanna touch you ♪ You're sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I wanna fuck you ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ I wanna touch you ♪ You're sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I wanna fuck you ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ I wanna touch you ♪ You're sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I wanna fuck you ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ Sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ And if it tight true ♪ Player getting nothing but love tonight ♪ ♪ I wanna touch you ♪ You're sweeter than the taste of honey ♪ ♪ I wanna fuck you ♪ I damn near paid my money ♪ Sweeter than the taste of honey... ♪