Transcript for Prisoner of Zenda (1988) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (dramatic music) (Queen sobbing) - My darling. - My dear Wilhelm, you must save your strength. - It's too late my darling Queen, my time is short. You must bring Prince Rudolph and Prince Michael to my bedside. I must put the affairs of our country in order. Ah, my sons, you have come. - Father. - Hush my son, let me speak. I am going to die. It is my royal duty as King of Ruritania to appoint my heir, the new king, of our beloved country. Rudolph, Michael, it is so difficult when a king has twin sons. Born moments apart and then must choose between them. Michael, you were born first but you have a wildness in you that is not befitting to a king. So, Rudolph, my more gentle son, I choose you. - Father, I, Michael I always thought that you. - Michael, I command of you that you serve your brother loyally. But should it be that Rudolph dies before you, then you will assume the right to be king. Do I have your word Michael? - You have my word, I promise. No more loyal servant will there be than myself to my brother, King Rudolph of Ruritania. (upbeat music) (bell tolling) - [Narrator] And so it was that the proud nation of Ruritania came to mourn the passing of the beloved King, King Wilhelm VI, who had ruled the land for nearly 40 years. Then according to tradition, the palace issued a proclamation to the people. (horn trumpeting) - It is the wish of myself King Wilhelm VI, that my son, Prince Rudolph shall become King of Ruritania. Long live the king! Well thank goodness for that. It would have been a sorry day for the country if Black Prince Michael had become king. Long live good King Rudolph! (people cheering) - But we don't know anything about him. - It's just as well, we know too much about Prince Michael. (people cheering) (upbeat music) (tense music) - How dare my father do such a thing! Rudolph of all people. Ha, King Rudolph, doesn't even sound right. - Oh no. (Michael sobbing) - My darling, please try and calm yourself, you must respect the wishes of your poor departed father. - My poor departed father was an idiot! - Michael, what are you saying? - I'm saying that I should be king, I, I, not my nincompoop lily-livered milk-sop brother! He's not fit to rule a page, let alone a kingdom. - That's right. - Michael for king! - Yeah, and so I shall be. King of Ruritania. (dramatic music) On his deathbed, my father said that I should become king only if Prince Rudolph should die before me. What do you think that means? - Well, I suppose he meant, well. (goons groaning) - I'll tell you all what it means. It means that Prince Rudolph must die. (goons cheering) - Die! - Michael, but surely you can't. - Can't! (laughing) What do you mean can't? Can my dear, can. (goons laughing) - Michael it is horrible. I love you very much, but I'll have no part in the murder of Prince Rudolph. - Silence woman! You are offending the future king of Ruritania. - How dare you! I've been a fool to love you Michael. I wish never to see you again. - Your wish is granted, get out of my sight. (dramatic music) - Very well Michael. Goodbye. - Schmitt, Henrik, follow her and don't let her out of your sight. - So my dear, poopsie, another month and I'll be King of Ruritania, I can't quite believe it. - Oh Rudy, I'm so proud of you. I must be the luckiest woman in all of Europe, no, in all the world. - I do love you my darling Flavia. Soon we will be married and. (knocking on door) Oh bother, come in. (peaceful music) - Antoinette. - Antoinette. - I'm so sorry to intrude, your Majesty. - Oh come now Antoinette, I'm not anybody's Majesty yet And even when I am you must keep calling me Rudolph. Now what brings you here so late? - It's, I, Prince Michael. Rudolph, would you mind if we spoke alone? This is a very private matter. I'm sorry Flavia. - Oh not at all Antoinette. I'll be in the library darling. - Now my dear, what on earth is this all about? (upbeat music) (clock chiming) It can't be, I don't believe it. Michael plans to kill me, no, no, quite preposterous. - You must believe Rudolph, please. I heard him say it from his own mouth. I came as quickly as I could. You're in great danger. - Hmm I suspected he took the news rather badly but to murder his own brother, no, surely not. - Prince Rudolph, I find myself in a dreadful dilemma. On one hand, I have, had, certain feelings for your brother Michael but on the other, you have my absolute loyalty as a future King of Ruritania. - Very well Antoinette, what we must do is ensure that Prince Michael doesn't kill me, if he really means to. (playing piano) Maybe I have a plan. Yes I do. But I'll need your help. (upbeat music) (people chattering) - Ah gad zooks old boy, what a get up, couldn't get you a banana hey what? - No thanks old man but I must say, I've never seen you looking so well. - I say, hang on a minute. That's not very nice Rudolph. Oh look out Charlie, here comes Lady F. I wonder who she's with. - At, Mr. Rassendyll, oh I presume that is you, is it? - At your service madam. - May I present, Princess Antoinette of Ruritania. - How do you do? - Ah, this is my friend, Mr. Absworth. - Ah Mr. Absworth, perhaps if you would be kind enough to escort me to the dance floor? And you two to get to know each other. - Dance? - Thank you, no. But perhaps you'd lead me to the balcony? I'm feeling a little faint. - Why of course, here take my arm. (tense music) Thank you Mr. Rassendyll. I've been traveling all of Europe for nearly 3 weeks. I am so tired. - My word, you're so beautiful, if I may say. - Thank you, Mr. Monkey? - Oh, I'm so sorry, Rudolf Rassendyll. - Oh my god, Prince Rudolph. (speaking in foreign language) - It can't be! - No, no, it is, Price Rudolph mit a mustache. - I can't believe it. - Hang on a minute, it's not that bad is it? - Oh my dear Mr. Rassendyll, it's not at all bad. You see it's identical to that of Prince Rudolph of Ruritania. - Good lord, did you say Rudolph? That's my name too. What a coincidence eh? - Oh, Mr. Rassendyll you have no idea how pleased I am to meet you. I can't explain but I must ask you to go at once to Ruritania, please trust me sir, it is a matter of life and death. (dramatic music) - A matter of life and death did you say? Well, I'm sure the Foreign Office wouldn't mind if I took a week or two off. - So Schmitt, Prince Rudolph has an identical twin, nein? - Ja, what shall we do? - What we do Schmitt is very simple. We exterminate him. (dramatic music) (train chugging) - I say Rudolf this is a dash queer business eh what? Rushing off to Ruritania, matter of life and death, no details. I mean, what's it all about old boy? - Duced if I know Absworth. But by the way, the Princess gave me this. What do you think of that? - Good lord, Rudolf, it's you without a mustache. - It happens to be Prince Rudolph of Ruritania, he'll be crowned king in two days. - How extraordinary. I say old boy, are you sure you're not in some kind of danger being mixed up in all this ay what? - No, Charlie, I shouldn't think so. (tense music) (whistle blowing) (gun firing) (window smashing) - Gad zooks Rudolph, what was that all about? - Princess Antoinette. - Gentlemen, may I join you? - Why of course, delighted. - Honored. - Mr. Rassendyll, I'm afraid I owe you an apology. - Apology? What on earth for? - You'll see, I have put your life in great danger. I'm sorry. - But my dear surely not. - I'm afraid so Mr. Rassendyll. You see, someone has already tried to kill you. - Gad zooks! - I say! (train chugging) - Damn, dammit, why haven't we heard from Schmitt und Henrik The last I heard in London und then, nothing. - Ah, maybe they got lost boss? - Lost, don't be a bigger numbskull than you already are Gotfrid. How can anyone get lost in London? Argh! - Hey boss when we going to kill the Prince? - Yeah, kill! - Ah yes, the Prince, the Prince how are we going to do away with my charming little ninny of a brother? Yes. (tense music) - Ah, gentlemen, a toast to your good health. - [Charlie] Bottoms up ay what? - [Rudolf] Yes, chin, chin. - Look, gentlemen, the lights of Zenda, we're almost there. Well, good luck, and you too sir, cheers. (Schmitt choking) - Good lord, bit of a stiff drink what? - I suppose you had nothing to do with that, Princess Antoinette? - Well maybe just a little teensy bit. - Now gentlemen, you must leave the train at Zenda and make your way to the King Wilhem Tavern. Prince Rudolph's men will make contact with you there. - And you? - I will journey on to Strelsau. God willing, we will meet again after the coronation. Be careful my friends. (upbeat music) - Read all about it, killed on Strelsau Express. Extra, extra. (car honking) - Ah the boss won't like this. (knocking on door) - I'll get it Charlie. Thank you. Meet me in the reading room at 9:30, signed Fritz von Tarlenheim. Heavens, it's after 9:30 already, Come on Charlie, we're late. - Dead? What do you mean they're dead, how can they be dead? How dare they, idiots! (dramatic music) - But I've got some other news boss. - Well? Und make sure it's better than your last lot of news. Someone has seen Princess Antoinette get off the train at Strelsau Station. - Oh did they? Well the Siegfried she's back, yeah? That is good news indeed. Now go and find Gotfrid. We are going to pay a visit to old Elgren, the winemaker. (upbeat music) - Well Colonel von Tarlenheim, what's all this about ay? - I'm sorry, gentlemen. I can't tell you any more than I know. I was sent here by Prince Rudolph to ask you to take a walk in the Black Forest near the Zenda Lodge at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. - Take a walk in the forest? Odd sods, that's a dash queer request. - Perhaps it is, I do not know. You see the Prince is working to a plan only he alone knows. Perhaps we'll all learn more tomorrow. - Very well Captain, but there's one thing you might clear up for me. - I'd be only too happy, if I know the answer. - It's most odd, here I am the spitting image of Prince Rudolph and no one recognizes me. - Why would that be? You see, Prince Rudolph spent most of his time abroad going to school and university. He came home only because King Wilhem was dying. Apart from those in the Royal Court, most people have no idea of what it looks like. - Ah, I think I'm beginning to make a little sense of this whole thing but I'm not sure that I like it. - Well old boy, we could always pack up and toodle back off to London. - Gentlemen. I'm sorry, but that will not be possible. (dramatic music) I have my instructions to keep your here at Zenda. You are not free to leave. (upbeat music) - So what's a good old winemaker like me done to deserve a visit from you, Prince Michael? - Not a great deal Elgren you old fool. But you make a certain kind of wine. - I make many certain kinds of wine. What did you have in mind? - I want the most powerful wine you've got. A wine strong enough to send a man to sleep for two days, three days. - Oh that's easy. (Elgren crashing) (door creaking) (tense music) There we are, specialty of the house. (Elgren mumbling) Of deadly nightshade. (Elgren mumbling) 1892. Never drink it myself. (clapping) - You guarantee it? - 100%. (hiccupping) But you must be very careful with it. Too much can easily kill the man. - Funny you should say that Elgren. I'll take it. Siegfried, Gotfrid, take the cask back to the castle. Und you Elgren will forget this little visit ever took place. - Oh don't worry, old Elgren never remembers anything, especially in the mornings. (hiccupping) - Ah yes, dear Prince Rudolph, my dear brother. Come to the castle for a brotherly chat, hmm? (laughing) Und now, a little toast, for you father, long live the King of Ruritania. Me! (laughing) (peaceful music) (pool cue clacking) (knocking on door) - Enter. (door creaking) - His Royal Highness, Prince Michael. - Michael. - Ah Rudy my dear brother, how good to see you. (tense music) Princess Flavia. I've come to apologize to you Rudolph. - Apologize Michael, whatever for? - Well, after father's funeral I must admit to feeling resentful about the whole business. You becoming king, even though you were younger than I. Having spent much of your life outside Ruritania, all of that. - Yes, I can understand. You know, I understand. - Well Rudy, I just want you to know that I've got used to the idea of you being king. You have my full support. - Michael, I don't know what to say. - Say nothing my dear brother except that you will come to Zenda castle tomorrow night and have a pre-coronation drink with me? What do you say? - Why Michael, I'd love to, yes, of course. (upbeat music) (birds cawing) - I say old boy, this is sticky wicket isn't it? - I'm afraid you're right Charlie. We may have bitten off a little more than we can chew aye? - Too right. I say old boy, why don't we make a run for it? (gun firing) - I wouldn't do that if I were you gentlemen. I must repeat that for the time being you are not free to leave Ruritania. - Fritz, perhaps we owe the gentlemen an explanation? Allow me to present myself, I am Prince Rudolph of Ruritania. - Good lord. - By jove Charlie, it's quite uncanny. - Well Mr. Rassendyll, I'm most impressed. Without the mustache, you're my exact double or I'm yours. - I say old fruit, I mean your Majesty. Would you mind telling us just what we're doing here? - All in good time Mr. Absworth. Now gentlemen, if you'd be kind enough to walk with me to my hunting lodge, come Fritz. (upbeat music) So you see Mr. Rassendyll, I brought you here to go to Ruritania purely as a kind of insurance. Antoinette has succeeded beyond my wildest hopes. - So you are taking her warning seriously? - Well let's say forewarned is forearmed shall we? - And if something does happen? - Then you, Mr. Rassendyll will take my place on the throne in Strelsau tomorrow. You see, I rather suspect my father's dying wish was not so much that I be king but rather that my unfortunate brother Michael never be king. - I say, what a jolly old hoot Rudy, you'll being king. (laughing) I'm sorry, your Majesty, I didn't quite mean it like that. - Quite all right Mr. Absworth. And now gentlemen, I must ask you to remain here at the lodge until after the coronation. If nothing goes wrong, you may leave for England tomorrow night. - And if something does go wrong? - I'm sure you'll cross that bridge when and if you'll come to it Mr. Rassendyll. - Your Majesty, have you told Princess Flavia about Mr. Rassendyll? - No Fritz, I'll tell her tomorrow in Strelsau, I've sent her on ahead. (upbeat music) (car chugging) (car splattering) - Let me go, big gorilla! - Easy Fraulein, easy. The boss just wants a chat with you. He doesn't understand why you ran out on him like that. (goon groaning) - Help! (chicken clucking) (car honking) (dramatic music) (door creaking) - Welcome back to Zenda, my darling. Did you go to London to visit the Queen. - Michael I. - Michael! Your Majesty to you woman. - Your Majesty. I had to get away after we fought, I was so upset. I thought you didn't love me anymore. - I don't believe you. Bring her inside! Ha, now you are in Zenda to visit the King. (tense music) (owl hooting) So, Rudolph, this time tomorrow you will be king. Are you nervous? - No, actually not at all. I must say Michael, you're being awfully decent about this. (Michael chucking) - Oh it's nothing. Perhaps we should have the drink I promised you? I have a superb red for you to try. - Well thank you Michael. - It's a French Bordeaux, 1892. I'm afraid red wine sends me to sleep these days, I'll stick to the white. Well Rudolph, to you. For as long as you may live. - Oh, no Michael, for as long as we both may live. Michael! - Yes Rudolph? - What a beautiful wine, may I have another? - Why of course Rudolph. - Why, it seems to get better by the glass. - Eh, does it? - Absolutely, you really should have some, you know. - Ah no I don't think so. Ar you sure it's so nice. - Michael, it's brilliant. Well, I must dash. I have to pack for Strelsau in the morning. - Are you sure you wouldn't like just one more. - No, thank you, I need a clear head for the coronation tomorrow but we'll do this again soon, I promise. (dramatic music) (door creaking) You know, this evening meant a lot to me. - Yeah, it meant a lot to me too Rudolph. - Goodnight Michael. Damn, damn, damn, damn! (glass smashing) (upbeat music) (door creaking) - Well gentlemen, I think the danger's over. If Michael meant me any harm, it would have happened back there at the castle don't you think? - Hmm, maybe. I'll put a guard on tonight, just in case. - Mr. Rassendyll, Mr. Absworth? I'll bid you goodnight. All of a sudden I feel terribly tired. - Are you all right? - Oh yes, quite, just, tired that's all. - Actually I am too. Must be the air. - Goodnight everyone. (tense music) - What's the matter Prince Michael, is there something I did? - He didn't die you fool! He didn't even go to sleep. - Who didn't die or go to sleep? - No one did! - I am completely confused. Why are you coming here in the middle of the night telling me these things. - The wine, you old fool! The wine you gave me didn't work. - Wine? Oh that wine, I almost forgot. That wine was from the, oh yes, that was because you told me to forget. - I don't care, it didn't work. - How long ago did this no one drink the wine? - About 20 minutes ago, why? - Ah well, that's all right then, he's got a delayed reaction you see, takes about 20 minutes to work. I forgot to tell you. (upbeat music) (birds chirping) - Mr. Rassendyll, come quickly, something is terribly wrong. - I say, he's not? You know, is he? - No he's not dead. I think he's been drugged, he's in a very deep coma. - Dear god, this is disastrous. The coronation is only four hours away. We must wake him. - I'm afraid there's little chance of that. - But the coronation! - The coronation my dear boy will take place exactly on time. - But Prince Rudolph? - Prince Rudolph will be crowned King of Ruritania exactly as planned (upbeat music) - Incredible. - Now we don't have a moment to loose. Between now and the coronation, you must tell me all about myself. Charlie old man, I want you to stay here and guard the Prince. - Please, Mr. Absworth, you will guard him with your life. - Now, Captain von Tarlenheim, come! We must leave for Strelsau. (upbeat music) - Ladies and gentlemen, all citizens, your new king, King Rudolph of Ruritania. (crowd cheering) - How can that be, how can that be? Answer me you fool, he's meant to be dead. Why isn't he dead you idiot? - Maybe you're asking the wrong people boss. Maybe Princess Antoinette knows something about this? - Princess Antoinette? Hmm, you might just be right for a change Siegfried. This is your last chance Princess, either you talk or die. Now, tell me everything you know. - Oh Michael, it's too late for you now. The coronation has taken place. You see, Prince Rudolph has a double, a man who looks exactly like him. - A double? A double! Why didn't I think of that? You two, go to the hunting lodge immediately. If I'm not wrong, you will find Prince Rudolph there, he will either be very asleep or very dead. (dramatic music) You must bring his body here to the castle immediately. Too late huh? Maybe for you it is too late but I, I still intend to become king, by hook or by crook. (peaceful music) (fist smashing) (dramatic music) - Ya, what? - No, surely not! Oh my God, are you sure there's no reply? I have very bad news, sir. It seems that Princess Antoinette has been kidnapped. She left her home yesterday and hasn't been seen since. - Heavens. Prince Michael, do you think? - Certain of it. But there's more, my men have been trying to telephone the hunting lodge and there's no reply. I think something nasty has happened to Mr. Absworth. - Then we must go to Zenda at once. (dramatic music) (car screeching) - [Siegfried] Here he is, I'm sorry but he's only asleep. - Ah that's even better. Good work boys. So, my brother the sleeping prince, at last you are my prisoner. A prisoner of Zenda. (chuckling) As for you, my two-faced little dove, take her down. She has one last duty to perform. (dramatic music) - Charlie, are you all right? - I think so, just a bump on the old coconut. - Oh no, the King, he's gone! - I say this is rather ticklish what? That Michael fella's got them both in the castle. Antoinette and the King. - We must do something. I'm afraid Prince Michael is capable of anything. Even murder. (glass smashing) - I say, poor old Charlie. - Look, Mr. Rassendyll, it's a message. - Hmm, it's from Princess Antoinette. - Oh thank god she's alive. - Meet me at midnight at the drawbridge of Zenda Castle, signed Antoinette, hmm. - Oh I say old bean, I keep getting conked on the old bozo. Would someone mind telling me what's going on? - Ah, Charlie, there you are. I'm afraid we're all rather the dark at the moment. But it seems I have an appointment at midnight. - I'm certain it's a trap. - You may well be righto chap but I don't think there's any alternative. Princess Antoinette's life may depend on it. (tense music) (owl hotting) Princess Antoinette. - I'm so sorry Mr. Rassendyll, it's a trap. (guns firing) - I say, nice shot old fruit. - Jump madam, quickly. (water splashing) (gun firing) (water splashing) (tense music) (guns firing) - Argh! - I saw Princess Antoinette, are you all right? - Oh yes, but his Majesty is in terrible danger. Prince Michael is going to murder him. (tense music) - Boss wait, boss, we got trouble. - Trouble? - Sorry boss. - And Princess Antoinette? What? You didn't let her go? Imbeciles, I'm surrounded by imbeciles. - Now you say the king is prisoner under the east wing, there? - Yes, that is a small window just above the moat, see it? - Jolly good, so that means we should attack the west wing, there. Yes, that should do it. - Please hurry gentlemen, I'm afraid the king may only have moments to live. (dramatic music) - Now. Charlie, do you have our army in position? - All present and correct old bean. - And the heavy artillery Princess Antoinette? - All in position Mr. Rassendyll. Hand me the megaphone Fritz. Is everyone ready? Now, wait 'til I get the word to attack. Attention, attention! Prince Michael of Zenda, the castle is surrounded. You must release the King and lay down your arms. I repeat, the castle is surrounded. - Surrounded, how can we be surrounded? How many were there? - I don't know boss, it was dark out there. - [Rudolf] Release the King and lay down your arms. - You will keep, quick to the west tower. - All right, Charlie, bring in the troops. - [Gramophone] Battalion, leave. (boots clomping) (men chanting) - Hey boss, that sounds like the army. - That's impossible. - [Gramophone] Battalion, halt. - You have fire seconds before our forces open fire. - I don't like the sounds of this. - Two, three, four, five. Now Princess, fire the canons. - [Gramophone] Fire! (fireworks exploding) (tense music) (fireworks exploding) - Right Fritz, to the east wing, quickly. You two keep up the barrage. We'll be back. (upbeat music) - It's a trick, to the east wing quick! - Quickly Fritz. All right Fritz, now! (car spluttering) (window exploding) Quickly your Majesty! - Stop the swine. (goons crashing) (water splashing) (gun firing) - Damn, damn. Siegfried, Gotfrid, get me out of here, get me out of here! (goons crashing) - It's no good boss. - Boss you're stuck. - Get me out, fools, idiots, imbeciles, ninnies. (dramatic music) - I'll see you in London soon, I trust. - Yes, Mr. Rassendyll, within a fortnight. And your brother, Prince Michael? - Oh, I'll let him cool his heels in Zenda Castle for a while, I think he's probably learned a valuable lesson from this. - Goodbye dear friends, we'll never forget you, goodbye. - Goodbye to you all and good luck King Rudolph. (upbeat music) (car spluttering) - All the jolly best of British, toddle pip everyone! (dramatic music)