Transcript for The Legacy of the Sun (2011) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- March, 2011, California Should I call you "general"? Just call me Igarashi. Alright... Mr. Igarashi. Even though you're a Japanese-American Nisei, you helped in the front post with the commander of the American Army in Japan, assisting General MacArthur to execute his occupation policy. Well... I was simply caught in the tides of times. Do you understand Japanese? No... not really. May I? Oh... sure. Alright. Yuso ni rekijitsu nashi. Time does not exist in prison. I was the same as they were, and General MacArthur. On the 30th of August 1945, I met the Great General Douglas MacArthur. The place was Atsugi Airfield. And as an Intelligence officer serving as an Interpreter, I was among those first welcoming him to Japan. It was a long way from Melbourne. But this makes it all worthwhile. The car's waiting for you, sir. My treasure... Then I'm certain I heard it. The words of General MacArthur: "My treasure... where's my father's legacy?" 2011, March Tokyo Congratulations - Graduation Ceremony Congratulations - Graduation Ceremony. Good morning Congratulations - Graduation Ceremony. This year too the plum tress bloomed beautifully. Every time I saw this stone memorial that I alone was separated from my friends. The one left alive... shouldn't be ungrateful. Yes... congratulations. Yes. Thank you very much. Congratulations Please sign this. Yes. I see your grandmother and grandfather already. Eh? They enjoy attending the graduation ceremony every year. It seems they'll continue to contribute for this. Good. With sorrow we dedicate this to the girls whose fleeing lives were lost Showa 20 "1945" 14 August, in the Kumgaya City munitions factory during labour service, they encountered an air-raid. 19 students and 1 teacher of this school sacrificed their precious lives. To pray for the tranquillity of their souls, we erect this stone memorial / Showa 26 "1951" June / Moriwaki Girls' School. What are you looking at? Plum blossoms. I think they're beautiful this year. Thank you for your efforts. Grandfather, this is Ryoko's fiancé, Goto-Sensei. I met him once. Don't speak to me like a senile old man. Surely... it's not something like a shotgun marriage, is it? Presently, I am a teacher. Well... Better than putting your hands on the students. We'll Sing Together "Aogeba Totoshi" My respect for my teacher. Graduates, enrolled students, Stand up. Heisei 22 "2011" Annual Awarding of Diplomas Ceremony A since while ago he's been glaring at me the whole time. It's your imagination. Grandpa's look and expression are bad. Highly precious, my teacher's kindness. Already many years in this learning garden. - How fast those times have flown. Yes. - How fast those times have flown. - How fast those times have flown. What's the matter? How fast those times have flown. - How fast those times have flown. Just now, I saw Mashiba-san But in the realms of light and love may we all meet at last. But in the realms of light and love may we all meet at last. Mashiba-san? But in the realms of light and love may we all meet at last. But in the realms of light and love may we all meet at last. Ah... Imperial Guard... But in the realms of light and love may we all meet at last. He was wearing a uniform. But in the realms of light and love may we all meet at last. But in the realms of light and love may we all meet at last. No longer... the orders... How close and deep our connection has continued to be. It seems we don't have to obey them How close and deep our connection has continued to be. How close and deep our connection has continued to be. Grandfather, how close and deep our connection has continued to be. How close and deep our connection has continued to be. Grandfather, how close and deep our connection has continued to be. I won't ever forget even after we part... Ryokoi won't ever forget even after we part... How close and deep our connection has continued to be. It's all right. Take that. Oh... yes. Well, excuse me. Mother... although he was a retired person, if you hold a private funeral for a person, who still acted as City councillor, I think socially the outcome is bad. It is grandfather's last request. I have to select the photograph for the portrait. Ryoko, please help me. Yes. Maybe there's a photo we can use for grandpa's portrait. Shuntaro-kun. Yes. The Kinbara family is a women's line and both I and father-in-law were taken into the family. Ryoko's deceased mother was also that way, but... This family's women are quite difficult. I'm much obliged for your courtesy. Anyway, it was a sudden situation. That... Will you get the phone? Yes. I'm sorry. Thank you. Yes... this is Kinbara. Oh... no good. Ah... this too is no good. There's no more. Maybe one is here? Really, in every photo - all of them - his expression is awful. Because he's the red devil. Red devil? Uh huh... It's the nickname I gave him when i was a student. A student you say. Ah... This is it! Let's pick this one. You met him that long ago? If truth be known... In that stone memorial. My name would have been curved. The stone memorial... at the school? Showa 20th year 8th month "August, 1945" In that summer, grandfather and I lost very precious people. At that time, everyone was living to make war. Even I, 13 years old, was recruited into the National Labour service, making parts for aeroplanes at the munitions factory. making parts for aeroplanes at the munitions factory. Showa 20, 8th month, 3rd day August 1945" One more effort for another 30 minutes until the noon break. Yes. Good. That's fine. Yes. Stop operations! Noguchi Kokichi, right. There're things we want to ask you about our suspicions of your violations of the Peace Preservation Act. Eh? Come. It's all right. I'll be back soon. Come! Who's the class monitor? Yes. Hasn't Noguchi put ideas critical of the Army and our country into your heads? If you cover for him, it'll be all over for you! Noguchi-Sensei... kindly lent us books. He's given us guidance with tender care. Oh... What kind of books? Hesse and Tolstoy. That's the enemy country literature, isn't it! Hesse is German... Brat! Be careful about talking back. No way... that teacher was grandfather? Absolutely not. Your grandfather was a scoundrel. Well then, Kenpei? "infamous military police" In some sense, they were the worse people. Mother I've heard from the lawyer, Kimura-Sensei. Your grandfather said, "I don't have to obey the order any more". Order? This may be a good opportunity to tell you. Ryoko, go and get Goto-Sensei too. Yes. I want to begin with Mashiba-san's story. Mashiba-san? At the time you were small, he rented a detached dwelling, and opened a kendo dojo. Ah... that quiet person. I don't remember at all. Taicho-san... "Commanding Officer", let me tell your story. This is Mashiba-san's diary. Showa 20, 3 month, 10 day August 1945. 10th Army Major Mashiba Shiro. 10th of August was the day when Noguchi-Sensei returned to the factory. Showa 20. 8 months, 10 days 10th August 1945 How long with the electrical outage continue? Could Sensei have been sent to the southern front? It's all right! Hisae-chan explained to the Kenpei that Sensei hadn't made errors. Certainly he'll come back. Today all day long, it's weeding. I wonder when we can go to school next. It's true, Sensei's come back! Everyone, Sensei's come back! Sensei! Welcome back. Today, has work stopped from the electrical outage? Yes. Weeding's more appropriate for you all. Truth is, I don't want to make you do that work. What's wrong, Hisae? If you say that kind of thing. Is it the monitor's habit to be a crybaby? I... If Sensei were sent to the southern front, and died... Don't worry unnecessarily. It's all right. I won't die. I won't die if I'm not with you all. No way I'll die alone. Let's get back to work. Yes. When Noguchi-Sensei returned I was truly happy. However... happiness was just for a moment. At that time already, we... Mashiba-san, your grandfather, were in the middle of a current we couldn't fight. Showa 20th year Showa 20th year 8th month 10th day Imperial Guard Headquarters, a heat wave's coming to the Imperial Guard Headquarters In the Imperial Guard Commissioned Officers Assembly Hall we argued over the contents of the Potsdam Declaration. Everyday futile emotional arguments. I'm becoming a little sick and tired. Attending this is becoming a great agony. The Potsdam Declaration and such are absurd. In the current situation, we can't protect the national government. Mashibai. What's your opinion? Yes, Imperial Guards Number 1, Commissioned Officers Assembly Hall. Is this Major Mashiba? This is Division Commander Mori, Don't speak my name. Tell them you received an order from the Eastern Army Division, and leave. Where would you like me to go? The Army Ministry in Ichigaya. Without Informing anyone, come directly to the Minister's room. Certainly you'll never been noticed by the division people. Army Ministry Imperial Guard No. 1 Division Major Mashiba reporting to Army Ministry Minister of War Anami Korechika This is Eastern Army Accounting Section First Lieutenant Kolzumi Minister of War Anami Korechika. You two make yourselves comfortable, the discussion's becoming a little lengthy. Paymaster First Lieutenant Kolzumi graduated from Tokyo Imperial University with honours, and passed the High Level Civil Servant Exam at the top of the list, and is an outstanding talent in the Ministry of Finance. Eastern Army Commander Tanaka Seiichi Overcoming the impossible, the Eastern Army is entrusted with him Eastern Army Commander Tanaka Seiichi Overcoming the Impossible, the Eastern Army is entrusted with him He's a budget expert. If he returns, sooner or later he'll have the ability to be minister or vice minister. General Chief of Staff Umezu Yoshijiro Oh... transfer rather than mobilisation General Chief of Staff Umezu Yoshijiro. Major Mashiba, Chief of Intelligence of the Imperial Guard No. 1 Division Military Academy 49th term, after service in the Infantry Division... first choice to enter the Army University issued an Imperial Gift Sword... From the Army Maintenance Unit, from June he has been serving as staff officer in the Imperial Guard. Oh... that's excellent. In the future, he'll be the head of this room. Both have been singled out by selection, men of talent. How is this, your Excellency? The Division Commander and the Army Commander make this recommendation The Division Commander and the Army Commander make this recommendation No. 1 Army Commander Sugiyema Hajime. No. 1 Army Commander Sugiyama Hajime. on the talented men approved by the Minister of War and the Chief of Staff. No. 1 Army Commander Sugiyama Hajime on the talented men approved by the Minister of War and the Chief of Staff. It's not the time for an old man to interject It's not the time for an old man to interject Imperial Guard Commander Mori Takeshi. Imperial Guard Commander Mori Takeshi. His Majesty's approval? Imperial Guard Commander Mori Takeshi. Imperial Guard Commander Mori Takeshi. Well, that... Imperial Guard Commander Mori Takeshi. With all due respect, the fact is I, Sugiyama, have newly entrusted duty. Major Mashiba... First Lieutenant Koizumi. With all due respect. The Commanding General His Highness, at yesterday's Imperial Council stated his intention to accept the Potsdam Declaration. Now, what I'm going to say, is top secret and only th five of us will know. Since I'm confiding in all of you I must have a corresponding resolution from you too. First Lieutenant Koizumi... Showa 21st year distribution special war funds. Approximately how much do you estimate? Since the distribution this year is 85 billion yen. I think It's appropriate to take it as more or less 90 billion, First, as the Showa 21st year distribution special war funds... We'll allow paying out 90 billion yen from the National treasury, Preparing for the worst situation, is it to snatch the war funds first, No, rather to receive an advance payment? So-called war funds is a pretext. Sooner or later, Japan will loose. There'll be no use for war funds. Is this defeat situation that much unexpected? There Is no way that you who work as staff officers wouldn't understand war situation. I myself believe that... Japan, the Land of the gods, will not diminish. That's right! Our country will not diminish. However... that doesn't mean that the Imperial Army is invincible. The Imperial Army will lose... but... Our country won't diminish. Think thus, Mashiba. For the sake of restoration, are there secret funds, your Excellency? While Diet and Ministry of Finance are functioning. With the pretext of a special war funds for use in the homeland's decisive battle, we'll leverage an advance loan. Under these circumstances, the 90 billion yen is not in paper. Isn't it gold and platinum? Do you know there is a treasure worth up to 90 billion yen at the current market price that the Ministry of Finance is hiding. Since the Sine-Japanese War, balance of the of the military currency issued... Isn't an amount that could possibly be called war funds. By this recklessly issued military currency. Everywhere in Asia, didn't they buy up every treasure. Umm... that's unfortunate, but your reasoning is off the mark. It's not that they bought up 90 billion yen of treasure with military currency. General Yamashita transported it from Manila as one would expect of the "Malayan Tiger". The 90 billion yen treasure is what Douglas MacArthur, from his father's generation saved for Philippine independence. That treasure... for the sake of reconstruction of our native land... before the American Army's landing. I want you to conceal it. You all... Answer whether or not you will obey this command. "All the world's a stage" "And all the men and women "are merely players". The role to manage the legacy is not a a bad one! We'll give the commands sequentially. After implementation, incinerate the command document completely. I am Zama 501 Regiment Company, Master Sergeant Mochizuki. From the Chief of Staff of the Regiment along with these vehicles. I have been ordered to take Imperial Guard Major Mashiba-dono's direction. I'm Imperial Guard Unit No. 1 Major Mashiba. I am First Lieutenant Kolzumi of the Eastern Army Accounting Section. Go to the Eastern Army Headquarters. Eastern Army Headquarters Eastern Army Headquarters "However have First Lieutenant Koizumi this day at 16:00" "go to the Ministry of Finance" "to have a meeting with Finance Minister Hirose. That is all" The arrangement must have been made judging from the attitude of the guards who took us to this room without any hesitation. I can see that this scheme ls meticulous, and that it is conducted in absolute secrecy. If our responsibility is leaked to tire resistance faction in the Department of Army and Imperial Head Quarters. We can't get away with it. What's happening with the Eastern Army's internal activity? It's the same everywhere. If it comes to it, there are people who rise to action, overthrow the senior statesmen... impose martial law, and vow all-out resistance. Here too the resistance group's activities have emerged. Do their Excellences know something about it? Major Mashiba, what are your thoughts? Do you think to give this kind of mission to dangerous people? I'll let the division people speak, they'll say I am cowardly defeatist. Somehow our duty doesn't seem simple because we'll be burdened with the mission after the defeat. Master Sergeant Mochizuki... both I and the First Lieutenant unfortunately have no experience in actual combat. I'm relying on you. This is a Mauser. I was in the 91 st Infantry Regiment deploying into the Northern part of China. That leg was from the front line. I got injured with a lodged-in bullet. In order to remove the bullet I returned to the homeland, and later my assignment was changed to Zama. Who is it? Was he wearing a Sho-Go - style uniform? He was young for a veteran. From what unit is he? Well then, like a 20th February ghost "2.26. 1936 there was an attempted by betraying officers that felled. Most were executed". "There are fears about the Eastern Army" "Go immediately to the New Grand Hotel, Yokohama, Shita-Machi". "In addition, at the time First Lieutenant Koizumi is attending the government office". "You should put on the civilian cloths provided inside the room. That is all". These are my personal belongings. These are things I left at the Ministry of Finance Official Residence. Well then, I will go. Later on let's link up in Yokohama. Somehow I have the feeling that's a promise I can't keep. I don't know how to say It because it isn't "lasting luck in battle". In this kind of case, the Japanese language is inconvenient. If you say this... Good luck Lieutenant, a while ago what was It that Army Commander Tanaka said? "All the world's a stage" "And all the men and women" "merely players" "All the world's a stage" "And all the men and women merely players" Shakespeare Well then... Mashibai. You! What are you doing here? By order of the Eastern Army. I'm just now going to receive provisions for use in the decisive homeland battle. No one knows about that order. I was ordered directly by His Excellency Army Commander Tanaka. His Excellency is expected to be away. Well then, I'll ask one more thing. Where is the Imperial Guard Commander? I don't know. Isn't he with His Excellency the Army Commander? There's a person who saw both a while ago in the Army Ministry's Room. And, Mashiba... you too. Traitor! Be ashamed. Mashibai. Mashibai. Major-dono! To the car! Yokohama was in desolate ruins. The white wall of the hotel were standing without damage like a miracle. The materials have been carried out the mint's underground storeroom, and currently are being loaded on stopped freight cars in the grounds of Tokyo Station. It's impressive that they're doing that boldly. No... it's audacious but extremely scrupulous. It's being put into ammunition boxes labelled "Fixed Number High-Explosive Projectiles". For the handling, students of the Toyama Army Cadet School have been mobilised. Even the attendees were local officials, who don't know the circumstances. "Fixed Number High-Explosive Projectiles." "Fixed Number High-Explosive Projectiles." They are new style anti-tank projectiles for use in the homeland decisive battle. Of course it's fictitious. Where's the destination? No, the destination site was not made known even to me.. I'll get it. Excuse me. It's simple fare, but... and with it, a letter. Who came to bring it? A Kenpei person riding in a sidecar, a moment ago. You say Kenpei? Yes... in an old style uniform over which he was wearing a cape. Ah... excuse me. "11th August 08:00" "Stand by at Southern Railroad, Mushi-Kodama Station". "After arrival of critical military property, Major Mashiba..." "will go to Minami-Tama Munitions Factory main office, interview with factory chief". "He must inspect San-no-Tani's conditions". "Have Lieutenant Kolzumi first go to Mitaka Electric Machinery Musashino Factory, and..." "interview the factory's chief... That is all". Musashi-Kodama is an unexpected place. Tokyo Station Southern Railway Mitaka Electric Machinery... perhaps... it's to go to borrow a factory workers. Of course. But with a disconnected order, it doesn't stand as a military operation. You say so, Major-dono. Because this is a battlefield... you will know nothing about the future. Sergeant-major, you don't know the details of our duty I suppose. For us as soldiers, whatever reason is fine. One's own death isn't in vain if it's for a just cause. One can die at ease. Well, tomorrow we'll start early. Let's have a meal and try to rest a little. Delicious. Will you have some black tea? Special Military Musashi-Kodama Wow... You all right? Where could we be going? It's the Tamagawa! Everyone, it's the Tamagawa. Eh! Really? It unlikely to be the Fucho and Tachigawa airports. If It were airport service, any number of lifetimes wouldn't be enough. They say they're preparing meals and lodging. Wow. It seems like you're lucky somehow. The decisive battle brightens Asia's dawn. The young cherry trees sparing no life competing blossoms in the Philippines. Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. - Come out and fall head first into hell. These came made for everyone Come out and fall head first into hell. - Come out and fall head first into hell. The fierce tiger General Yamashita is on the land. I'll work hard for Sensei The fierce tiger General Yamashita is on the land. The fierce tiger General Yamashita is on the land. See the promise of certain death battle group. See the promise of certain death battle group. Thanks for your effort... I'm Arsenal Chief Inomata. You don't have to report... my orders are to show you around San-no-Tani. Yesterday we ended operations. This is the dormitory. The latrine is there. We'll have them transport the meals from headquarters. The arsenal is a natural fortress. To the arsenal chief at the reception, there were orders for only our meals, lodging, preparation of materials. Here too secrecy was tightly maintained. The San-no-Tani air raid shelter we were shown, was excavated for the underground conversion of the factory. I pray your mission is a success. I offered prayers at the shrine at the side of the shelter dedicated to hope for the factory's safety. Form a line. Yes. Railway cars would arrive from the Mitaka Electric Machinery Musashino Factory. Line up. The 2nd year class of the private Moriwaki Girls High School was made up of 12 and 13 year-old very young girls. Number 1-2-3-4-5-6-1. On their heads was the headband "seven lives to serve the country" That black ink was vivid. All 20 have assembled. Understood. We'll guide you... watch your step. Yes. Form a line. Form a line. Line up. What you will be carrying are called "Fixed Number High-Explosive Projectiles". These are secret weapons for use in the homeland decisive battle. With one of these we can destroy one enemy tank. These are radically new shells. Your actions will save our country. I want you to bear this in mind and be zealous. Well then, after the break we'll begin operations. Everyone standby outside. Dismissed! Yes. Refreshments are prepared. At the factory the senior persons were mobilised. But I wonder why this duty was given to very young girls. Look at the girls' headbands. Amazing that girl student labourers have "seven lives to serve the country". I assume they chose their innocence with no suspicion over brute strength. Taicho "commander-sen, I have a request. My friend developed anaemia, is it alright for her lie down. I thought I should have your permission. Suzuki-san had pleurisy before, and was absent from school one year. It's all right to leave her here... Anaemia? I'm very sorry. If you lower your head and raise your legs, you'll be comfortable. Everyone, help. Good. Well, this... Yes. I'm all right now. If I rest for such a trifling matter. I'll have no excuses for the soldiers doing their best at the front. Rest in the barrack. When you're healthy, it'll be good to have you work your filled. Don't cry, Su-chan. It's all right. Everyone will work hard for your part, too. That's so. It's alright. It's all right. Everyone will work hard for your part, too. Su-chan, don't cry. Make every effort not to drop these boxes of explosive shells. Good... No. 1 squad, commence operations. Yes. Good... let's do it. Yes. Fixed Number High-Explosive Projectiles Imperial Army. It's all right not to rush... Yes. Watch your step. Be careful. Yes. Here it comes... heave-ho. Good. Quickly. Yes. Here it comes... heave-ho. Yes. Be careful. Quickly Chi-chan, all right? Yes. All right. Take it easy. Yes. Transportation for Military Materials Musashi-Kodama Hey, everyone will run from here. Yes. Do it quickly. The decisive battle brightens Asia's dawn... The young cherry trees sparing no life, now competing blossoms in the Philippines. Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. - Come out and fall head first into hell. Well then... No. 1, No. 2 squads, commence operations. Yes. Be careful. Yes. Look, hold it tightly. Yes. Heave-ho. No. 2 squad... into the air-raid shelter. Yes. Take your time. Yes. It's slippery, be careful. Yes. All right? You all right? Take your time. We'll raise it up. Heave ho. Shige-chan you can go ahead. Yes. Come on... one more effort. Yes. Heave-ho. What are you doing? I am very sorry. If an accident happened with these important shells, I... I'm terribly sorry. I'm sorry I yelled. The shells are safe, so don't cry anymore. Yes. Good... lift it up. Come now. Yes. I am terribly sorry. Heave ho. Good... yes. Let's do it. Yes. Until the next load comes, everyone take a break. Yes. Dismissed. Ah... would It be all right to go and see Suzuki-san's condition? No problem. Thank you very much. Su-chan? Su-chan? Don't exert yourself. You can read this book. Wow! It's rice onigiri. It's been a long time since I've had rice. There's canned fish for a side dish too. Matsu-san. It's a prize. Yes! I did it. Thank you very much. That's good. I deserve it... because my work is different from yours. Even though you run you're slow. Matsumoto. Yes. Your head alright? It's all right. The sound was terrible. If it's impossible to return home. Would It be possible to let us rest in a comer in the Headquarters? Sorry... it's a top secret mission. You can't do that. Is that so... While you're here, don't worry about meals. During the day, how about if we let you rest in the open air in the nice shade of the trees. Yes... well, excuse me. I've given the Socho "Master Sergeant"-san a nickname. What? Red-devil. I want to let my big sister and little sister eat onigiri... Umm... I want to take some home for my family. Eat well. Yes. Only we have this kind of luxury. I'm feeling sorry. So let's make an effort for our mission. Have you finished reading the Hesse I lent you recently? Not yet. What! Your reading is unusually slow. What's wrong? If you did not come back. I wouldn't be able to borrow books. When I think this, reading is more than I deserve. What foolishness you're fantasising about. That's right. You should aim to be a novelist. Therefore, observe things well and then someday write about these times. Say this rock... exists at the same and sees the same events. But a rock cannot write things. Hisae, you can do that. Next time I'll lend you Somerset Maugham. Maugham is an expert on short novels. If there's time, it'll be good to transcribe them... it will be useful. Yes. It's a promise. Mother... Last night did you sleep well? Yes. By your efforts, only one more munitions freight car remains. If today's operations are finished without trouble. It's been decided that you can return home tomorrow morning. Take cover, take cover! To the air-raid shelter. Look... to the air-raid shelter quickly. You don't have to run. Go to the air-raid shelter... Go to the air-raid shelter. Accept the Potsdam Declaration! The Government of Japan to seize fire. Alright... to the air-raid shelter should make the following decisions... Don't read it! You're not to read it. It's an enemy trick... don't be fooled! Major-dono, this may affect morale somehow... please say something. I'll instruct them one more time. Everyone, line up! Line up. This leaflet is an enemy trick. On our homeland, our Imperial Army is lying in wait, ready and on alert. The enemy armada landing on the homeland will be a rat in trap. It's as if the enemy will land to throw their lives away. Don't lose morale deluded by these things... all right. Yes. Taicho-dono. I have a question for Taicho-dono. Are American girl students also not going to schools now? Of course... American students too are frantically mass producing weapons. It's to fight you. Are they impoverished for food too? Are there people whose homes have been burned too? In America, the national land is wide and cities are dispersed. Therefore I don't think it's becoming scorched earth like our country and the food constrained to the degree in our country. But on the decisive homeland battle, if the tables are turned and they withdraw. It will turn around suddenly. Will the Japanese Army attack this time? That's right. Unless the enemy surrenders or begs for peace our Imperial Army and Navy will invade the American homeland. But if they do that American girl students too like us, will have to do difficult work. Many people will die... After this conflict, will peace come? Have you been instructed like this? No, it's my thinking. Matsumoto, stop now. To end a war... I think is never a shameful thing, because the lives of many people will be saved because of that. I think it's something magnificent. Everyone, since there's little more to do, let's do our duty completely. Let's combine our strength and do our best. Good... commence operations. Yes. Seems we were rescued by the class monitor. It's the fault of my careless instruction. Please don't reprimand her. It's not that anyone was listening to her. Please don't worry. She is never a student who neglects her duty. That kind of thing we all fully understand. Japan unconditional surrender. The war is over. The Government of... Japan will arrange tire acceptance of tire conditions of the joint declaration of the many pavements in Potsdam. 1st July, 1945... Japan unconditional surrender. The war is over. Aki, Yoshie. Yes. I want you over there. Yes... yes. Heave ho... good. Wait up a bit. Good. All right? It's all right. National Nanbu Railway Major Mashiba-dono This is an order. What unit are you attached to? Execute this without omission in even the slightest chance. These are repeated remarks. "After completing operations by early morning of 15th August". "You must perform according to the following". "Point - all of the operations staff must listen to the Emperor's broadcast in front of the air-raid shelter". "Point - After conclusion of the broadcast, in order to maintain the secret". You must quickly administer the drug in the envelope to all staffs except you and other three". "The Implementation site is the San-no-Tani air-raid shelter". "At the time of administration, those who vomit, are unsightly, or resist" "you must use your pistol or army sword, etc.". "Point... After completion of these measures, you must securely close the entrance". "After this, you and other three must standby for additional individual orders". The students? Ah, everyone's in the air-raid shelter. At last it's over. Eh... w-wait... Major-dono? I didn't even imagine this conclusion. There are 20 people... There are 21 people. The teacher, Noguchi, probably must be included. What do you intend to do? It's an order... only to be carried out. I'll do so, there is no reason to go on living as a commander. After that, I will leave it to you. Major-dono, are you a coward? After that you'll leave it to me? Everything is put in order if you die? Well then... Aren't you the same as other soldiers, Major-dono? This is a soldier's duty... isn't it a matter of course? I said the idea that it's a matter of course, is called cowardice. What do you mean by that? Why is dying equal to taking responsibility? The Major-dono's mission is not as simple to accomplish by dying. This treasure... Do you know for what purpose it will be used? Isn't if for the reconstruction of our country? That's right, however... not for the reconstruction of a militant Japan. It's the capital for the sake of building a new Japan. Please listen carefully. Currently private-sector business is stagnating, and paper bills are roughly 30 billion yen. In the condition of shortage of resources and destroyed production facilities. These are paper bills without productivity and material backing. At the end of the war these paper bills will circulate of in the cities. Furthermore... In order to fend off emergencies new paper bills will be issued. If that comes about, what will happen? What will happen? Worthless paper bills will overflow in the cities. Wholesale prices in an instant, jump several times. The national economy will be destroyed, and starvation will attack the people. I will say it clearly... 10 million people will starve to death. 10 million people you say? The peoples' lives without exception will be saved with this treasure. We stand as 3 people. Once more to do the decisive homeland battle. In other words, someday when the seal is opened... you say this country will be born again. A divine wind will blow. That's right. For that reason, you must live... We too... The girls too. The young cherry trees sparing no life, now competing blossoms in the Philippines. The reason that those young girls were mobilised for service now competing blossoms in the Philippines. Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. Isn't it because they're Noguchi-Sensei's students? Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. It is because he was being watched as a pacifist? Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. It is because he was being watched as a pacifist? It is because he was being watched as a pacifist? Come out and fall head first into hell. Come out and fall head first into hell. If we express our opinions through the night. Come out and fall head first into hell. For me, I cannot do only that. Understood. Were you sleeping? I had a dream about my father. Is your father well? He is a Navy captain. I think even now he is certainly fighting somewhere. I dreamt we were hawing a meal together. A dream that my father and I were eating onigiri as big as this. Is that so? Your father is certainly in good health. He'll come home with large onigiri-meshi as a souvenir. When you say that to me, I'm happy. Thank you very much. Hurry! Do it quickly. Yes. Mashiba. The Imperial Guards have gone into action. There wasn't time to persuade His Excellency, Mori. We'll obey the Emperor and fight. Already... the Division Commander's order for all out resistance has been sent out. Who made the proclamation? With a fake order, you wilfully mobilized the division, and... you've caused mutiny! Hurry! Do it quickly. Yes. You're in the way, move back! The road around the Imperial Palace is completely blocked. If the same people maybe are going to the Eastern Army... If their plan succeeds and the war continues. All of us, everyone will die. However, if the war ends tomorrow... those students will die. Now I may be... weighing the options in my heart, comparing options I shouldn't compare. After the war ends... won't you consider that those students live too? This is no longer a battle... burning the country to nothing in this kind of way, mobilising girls and children and ordering to kill them in the end. It is no longer a battle. Don't you think so? To the Army Minister's residence. I'll see His Excellency Anami. Hurry! Hurry more! Yes. Who's there? I am Mashiba. You!... What did you come for? Go back. Your Excellency... that order, I... Go back. Return to your mission. But... I cannot sacrifice civilians! I haven't given such an order. You... go live... as a human being. Shall I assist? Not necessary. Thank you very much. I, Mashiba... will go back. Beyond repair? It seems we've over-used it. In my hands, it seems to be impossible. I'll look for a person who can repair it. Let's do that after daybreak. These five days have been long. Shall we sleep a little? Showa 20 "1945" 15th August After the children have heard the Emperor at noon. We'll send them back to the school. The order has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. By the way, has anything happened? Ah... no... I've been acting as bathhouse attendant. Bathhouse attendant? Like I can't control myself. I was washing their backs. Whatever happens... I think I'll try to clean their bodies at least. Ah... Headquarters has prepared underwear and shirts for us. Attention! Salute! At ease! We'll go. Yes. It's really good it ended safely. In a moment... it'll be time for the broadcast. Major-dono... I'll be cleaning the baths. I am not inclined to hear the broadcast. Cleaning by yourself? Because I am class monitor. It's demanding for a class monitor, isn't it? Where's your home? I am living at my relative's home in Kashiwagi. My parent's home is nearby. Oh... same vicinity? In any case, I'm glad you're safe. I have a request. Huh? Red-devil-san... ahh... Socho-san, what are you doing after this? Ahh... I'm wondering what to do... My family are tenant farmers... there're as many as one sibling. Because I know only about the Army. The war... has ended. Soon it'll be time for the broadcast. I won't listen to such a thing. What's it worth to listen. "... those who have lost their home and livelihood..." "... are the objects of our profound solicitude..." "... The hardships and sufferings to which our nation is to be subjected hereafter will he certainly great..." "... We are keenly aware of the inmost feelings of all ye..." The war... "... Our subjects. However, it is according..." "... Our subjects. However, it is according..." has ended... "... to the dictates of time and fate..." "... to the dictate of time and fate..." "... We have resolved to pave the way for grand peace for all the generations..." "... to come by enduring the unendurable and suffering what is insufferable" It's quiet, isn't it. Ladies, the mission you accomplished with your labour... will never be pointless. Those shells are the fruit of our engineering science. They are things that will absolutely not fall into the hands of the brutal enemy soldiers. In the not too distant future the enemy will come to occupy our country. Ladies, even if it is your parents and siblings, you are not to discuss the content of the operations. Understood? You are to forget everything you saw in the mission. We'll make departure at 13:00. Until the truck arrives, everyone standby. Thank you for your hard work. Dismissed. Yes. We all will go back to school. Yes. Cheer up. Taicho-dono. Is it really all right for us to return? Of course it is... The mission is completely finished. It was close and made my blood run cold, Major-dono. I was surprised... after all children of soldiers are different from others. I assume that they aren't commenced. Better call it to the teacher's attention. It is about Army secrecy. If the slightest chance there's an investigation by the enemy. Trouble may befall the students too. Because after this we don't know what kind of society there will be, make sure. Understood... I will talk to the students once more. I wonder if violence and looting will happen from the army of occupation. There is no need to worry about that. If we only understand various cultures, and talk to one another. There is nothing that cannot be resolved. For this purpose, there are novels and the arts. You are right. We shouldn't be confused by the bogus slogans that Anglo-Americans are brutes. It's not here... Major-dono, did you get rid of it? I don't know... why? I placed it in this envelope. What is it? A specially supplied nutrient. Is it a drug? That... a nutrient is it? Let's stop it... we'll stop it. Major-dono, what's wrong? What did you do! I didn't do anything. Did you change your resolution? Coward! The drug disappeared. It couldn't be helped. It's not the Lieutenant's fault. That was potassium cyanide. It looks like everyone took it at the same time. For those suffering... l reluctantly took steps. It's unfortunate but... it is merely carrying out orders. I'm sorry. Everyone's waiting. This will not happen! I'll speak and persuade her. I won't let her tell anything. Step aside, sergeant! I cannot. Lieutenant-dono... you've gone insane. I'm not insane... is this something that the insane can do? With this hand I shot them. Ahh!... those innocents... I requested the lieutenant to make it easy for them. Major-dono. Hisae is an intelligent child... she understands well. It's all right, Hisae. In your case, you can go and do well. Sensei... what do you intend to do? Since I have to direct the students... May I withdraw from here? Sensei! Transcribe the Maugham faithfully. Sensei! Showa 20th year 3rd month 15th day "15 August 1945" 13:20 The order was executed... At our wits end... we left their remains as they had fallen... The blue sky's far away... The war is over. The legacy of the sun left unseen. I... will not say anything because Noguchi-Sensei said so. Do you understand what we've done? I do not understand. What! understand now... is just that everyone taken responsibility for a very important mission. Therefore... until the commander say it's enough. As class monitor... I will forget about what happened to Sensei and everyone. We don't know when the day when it will be all right to remember will come. 10 years... no, 20 years... I don't know if will be when you're an old woman. Do you have the self-confidence to deceive yourself for such a long time? I do. Noguchi-Sensei was a magnificent person. Those guys who called such a wonderful educator unpatriotic are absolute morons. I respected Noguchi-Sensei tremendously. Thank you for your understanding. It is impossible now to get this going. Major-Mashiba-dono. I must have you complete the order. I will have you hand over that girl. I don't recall getting an order from you. His Excellency Anami did not wish to have civilians sacrificed. Well then what happened to the other girls? Personal consideration is pointless for the great effort. A soldier of the Imperial Army... cannot even understand such a matter? For this reason... I must have that girl live! Truly... it was a hot summer. And then only two days later. I stayed at Mashiba-san's parent's home. I'll freshen your tea. What's the matter? Certainly on the school's stone memorial... wasn't it written that they were caught in an air-raid at Kumagaya? On 14th August, we were supposed to... have died at Kumagaya where we had been mobilised to work. The plan was made to that extent. It's awful... It happened that I alone escaped. Socho-san took me to my parent's home in Kodama Village. There was a commotion that a girl who was supposed to have died was alive. Socho-san received a warm reception as the person to whom I was indebted for my life, and he settled down here since then. Sergeant Mochizuki is my father-in-law? We asked him to marry into this family. It was awful to live keeping the secret by myself. After that, what happened to Mashiba-san and Koizumi-san? Koizumi-san parted at Mashiba-san's parent's home. What happened was... Mashiba-san came to visit... before I married your grandfather. It was the fall of Showa 23rd year "1940". Showa 23rd year Autumn, "1948". Since I didn't hear from you as you see. I've completely become a farmer. Because I heard that you were still here, so... Even if I wanted to contact you, no more orders ever came. How about First Lieutenant Koizumi-dono? Even though I inquired at the Ministry of Finance, it wasn't clear. Today I came thinking I'd cancel the order. You say cancel the order? From now on, there is no order. His Excellency Umezu is the only one remaining alive. He received a life sentence. He was a person needed for this at the end of the war 25 accused of War Crimes. Shimede Shigetaro, Shiratorf Toshiu, Oshfrne Hiroshi, Hoshino Nee". Areki Sedeo. Kolso Kuniaki, Hate Shunroku, Umezu Yoshijiro... According to rumour he seems to be suffering from terminal rectal cancer. With this... our mission has ended That sort of... in that case what in the world did they do it for. I wish we had at least burned them. Why did we leave them like that? It's not like that. What we... had to do... is not like that. So then say what we should do. The arsenal has now been confiscated by the American Army. Besides us, no one else knows about it. Let's wait... until those guys get out in 5 or 10 years. What will happen after we wait? Even if sooner or later the confiscation is rescinded, what can people like us do... Anything we can do... We should do something. With the money I earn, I'll own that mountain entirely. You know, Major-dono. In the world... we don't know how things will change. Let's do our best. Excuse me, will marry Hisae. Because we are soldiers. Because we were defeated in the war. We have to protect the ones who survived. The two of us continue to obey the orders have vowed to do so. We'll do whatever we can for the Major-dono's food expenses. Together let's preserve that forest. Sergeant, you're really... a good person. Taicho-san. These are the only things we have but... please take them. Thank you. It wasn't that grandfather was a bad person. Who was a bad person... Since I'm tired, let me rest ahead. Your grandfather is someone who gets lonely despite his appearance. Don't let the incense burn out. Grandmother. Thank you. The red places are Kinbara real estate. The land that father-in-law bought up. Even now he is badmouthed for speculating in land that was expected to be returned. Speaking of the 90 billion yen at that time. Now it's 200 trillion. It's that much... Grandpa... left an outrageous inheritance. It is totally out of our control. Kinbara Family Red-devil-san you have a peaceful expression. Please give this back to Mashiba-sen. Thank you for protecting me. Ryoko... So, do you want me to tell you about some great Japanese I met in my life? Yes, please. Alright. Let me tell you about 3 unknown Japanese. Oh, by the way, have you ever eaten takuan? Get out! American Army 3615f Hospital What's going on? American Army 3615f Hospital Japanese national has been demanding to see one of the patients here. He won't give up... God only knows what he's got in that parcel... He doesn't even have a pass. Lower your gun... regardless. What on earth is that smell? It's takuan... pickled radishes. Typical to the Japanese diet. They eat that? Good enough to be addicting once you get used to it. What's the matter? A person named Umezu Yoshijiro is supposed to be hospitalised here. General Umezu is a Class A war criminal, it is impossible to see him. If you insist... you must get permission from Sugamo Prison. I'm a person tremendously indebted to Umezo-san in the past. Because I heard he was ill... I came to call on him and bring a gift from Oita. I've gotten special permission for you... provided that the meeting time is five minutes and I am present. What I stated earlier... What do you mean? I am a soldier. Formerly I was staff in the Army Ministry. I will not harm His Excellency Umezu. It isn't my intention to cause you trouble. I believe that you are a Japanese. Please tell me the reason. I make this request. Please stop. Are you not a soldier who fought as opponent for the world. You should not to do this kind of thing. Please stand. I make this request. I came with hoshi-daikon as a present. They told me that by regulations I cannot give it to you. That's unfortunate. Seeing you unharmed, there's nothing left to say. It was good of you to come. Live long. That is your mission. You do not have permission for this! The meeting terminated. Your Excellency! Good Luck! MPI. Take him away. Time to go. Thank you very much. If it's all right, I'll give them to you. Thanks to you, I could... bid a final farewell to His Excellency. Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. - Come out and fall head first into hell. This is... the last request to that man Yuso ni rekijitsu nashi. Yuso ni rekijitsu nashi. "Time does not exist in prison" "and they can't be alone in contentment". However, I'm sure he obeyed till the end. Now my next story is about a man who built Japan alone. This is a very intriguing proposal. Especially the part about about reviving your country's manufacturing and Industries using money from American bonds. Very unique. I also noted In the proposal, I'd like to see the exchange rate. at 400 yen to the dollar or 300 yen or whatever is necessary to isolate the economy. It's time for Japanese corporations to focus on domestic demands and not on applications abroad. That would hamper your country's future international development. No... no matter how disadvantageous the rate may seem. Japanese corporations have work with anybody with entry onto the international stag. Interesting, but I still feel this is premature for such a proposal. What if I told you that I know the location of what you are looking for? Let's make a deal. You take the care of the obligation to rebuild this country. And you'll tell me where it's hidden. Is that it? This treasure was mine to begin with, not yours. I have no idea who the treasure belongs to nor do I care. I was ordered to look after it. By whom? 19 young girls. And what do you mean by that? General... there is only one of two possible answers. Yes or no? And if I answer "no"? You will not find the treasure... ever. If I answer no, you will not be going home alive. There is a time-honoured tradition called "hara-kiri" that is committed during negotiation that end in failure. My answer is "no". That is disappointing, sir. Could you tell me why you say "no". If I answer "yes", I'll be admitting defeat. Does his Excellency suggest that this is simply a matter of winning or losing? I swore to the girls that this country will be worth peace. One in which children won't be beaten by others. they had every right to live, but... but... we... The textbooks... songs... and even our country's beautiful words were stolen. Do you know the song they kept singing like a tamed bird? Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. Come and fall head first into hell. They were singing this ugly song holding their head high as if it were our national anthem. What are you saying? Zero planes will never attack Pearl Harbor. But one day for sure. Products we make in Japan will take over America. Igarashi, what are their hearts made of... steel? I want you to take these papers and send them to Washington. And have them marked. From General Douglas MacArthur. Yes, sir. The last one was a girl and with her 19 friends she challenged MacArthur. But I know nothing about this girl. Piercing... beauty eyes. I was told the engineers dismantling Imperial Army Demolition accidental found it. No more imaginative than put it in a place like this. Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. - Come and fall head first into hell. What's she saying? Come and fall head first into hell. Her accent ls so strong, I don't understand Come out Nimitz, MacArthur. My guess is that she is praising the great general. Come and fall head first into hell. - Come and fall head first into hell. Take her away. This way, sir. It's there. What on earth... What does it say on their headbands. It says even we're born 7 times. We will devote ourselves for our country, sir. My father's heritage never existed. Seal this up as it was. Cover it with concrete. They will come back for it... for sure. I can see it... I can see them conquering Manhattan. I can see that hateful flag of the rising sun. Flapping over the Empire State Building Get rid of the weeds, cover it with lawn, plant flowers, and keep it green. We cannot open this place to them ever. Igarashi, stay in this country and finish your mission. I don't believe anyone forced the girls to do what they did. You also suffered along with this as ordered by General MacArthur. Well, I just did my duty as an officer. You know, like the old saying? 1. "All the world's a stage" "and all the men and women are merely players". You're a reporter, don't tell me you don't know Shakespeare. The names to come inside? Eh... Kinbara Soichirou... Kinbara Hisae 2011, Early Summer. Eh... Kinbara Ryoko... Goto Shuntaro. OK? Yes, OK. Thank you. What's wrong? Mother, this is America. "You may not take one blade of grass or one pebble". Those are the terms for entry. Thank you. How reliable my son-in-law is. We donated 10 golf carts. Let's go. Let's go. Grandmother, did you transcribe the Maugham? Well..., let's go. Mother, I am still opposed to the donation of the land. Isn't it Kinbara Family's mission to continue protecting this place? Let's keep both the school's stone memorial and this place as they are. It would be good if someone remembers. Do as you like. Since I am no longer class monitor. Let's remember forever. Ryoko, I can't believe that you... I still haven't told even Shun-chan. Eh? It looks like we'll have a child. You'll have a child you say, aren't you teachers. They're teachers, and human beings. Congratulations. Thank you. I'll go borrow a golf cart. I'm telling you I'm all right. I will go... Father! Ryoko don't move... You're not to move. Thank you. I broke the promise I made with you, Sensei. Besides Book I borrowed from you... I lost it... Hisae-chan... I was the one who lost that book. I'm sorry. The class monitor is not supposed to be a crybaby. After all, I... You are not being left out or something. Hisae-chan. Line up. You know, maybe that large girl is Matsu-san. Well then, that pretty young girl is Su-chan. Satchan, Matsu-san, everyone, don't cry because this isn't even a bit sad. Even when the Army surrendered, the country remains. If only there is this secret treasure. Someday Japan will be renewed. Our brothers and sisters will not have to starve. Therefore everyone will become spirits to protect this treasure. Thank you... all... for your understanding.