Transcript for Christmas with Walt Disney (2009) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (dramatic music playing) (video clicking) (wind howling) (upbeat music playing) (dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: Every day, millions of friendly Americans, young and old, and millions of American homes, large and small, pause and refresh themselves with the wholesome, delicious goodness of ice-cold Coca-Cola. And today, Christmas Day, the Coca-Cola Company and your friendly neighbor who bottles Coca-Cola invites you to pause and be refreshed by an hour of wholesome, delightful entertainment. We now bring you Walt Disney. (upbeat music playing) (humming) ♪ Dashing through the snow in a one-horse open sleigh ♪ ♪ O'er the fields we go laughing all the way ♪ ♪ Bells on bobtails ring making spirits bright ♪ ♪ What fun it is to ride and sing a sleighing song tonight ♪ ♪ Jingle bells, jingle bells jingle all the way ♪ ♪ Oh, what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh ♪ ♪ Jingle bells, jingle bells jingle all the way ♪ ♪ Oh, what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh ♪ - Merry Christmas. - Merry Christmas, Walt. Merry Christmas to you all. Merry Christmas, everybody. - Merry Christmas to you. - Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas. ♪ We wish you a merry Christmas we wish you a merry Christmas ♪ ♪ We wish you a merry Christmas and a happy New Year ♪ ♪ Good tidings to you wherever you are... ♪ Well, this is very unusual weather for Southern California. In fact, it's impossible. But since Disneyland is a Magic Kingdom, we thought we'd use some of that magic to create a traditional Christmas atmosphere. - Hello, Walt. - Well, hi, Santa. Is everything ready for our big Christmas Parade? - Everything but the weather. - Yeah. Personally, I feel right at home in this snow, but it's not so good for a parade. - Well, maybe you got something there. - Yeah. Okay, Tinker Bell, turn it off. - Now there. How is that, huh? - Much better, Walt. - Hey, Santa. Can I get your autograph? - Oh, sure, you can have our autograph. - Why, of course. - You first, Santa. - Yeah. - Yeah. Make sure you spell it right, now, yeah. - There. All right, now. - Thanks, Santa. (laughter) Well, after all, it is your day, Santa, so make the most of it, you know? - I got 365. - (laughs) I see what you mean, Walt. And since I'm gonna be in that parade, I'd better get ready. Well, good. Santa, here's a little present, from Walt to Santa Claus. Oh, thank you very much. Just what I needed. (laughs) ♪ Jingle bells, jingle bells jingle all the way ♪ I'll see you later, Santa. (upbeat music playing) ♪ From all of us to all of you a very Merry Christmas ♪ ♪ For all this bright and joyful night we're glad to have you with us ♪ ♪ So gather 'round the lovely tree where all the lights are shining ♪ ♪ You'll see how happy we will be while all the bells are chiming ♪ ♪ Ding-dong-dingle ♪ ♪ What a merry sound ♪ ♪ Ding-dong-dingle ♪ ♪ Kris Kringle is in town ♪ ♪ From all of us to all of you it's good to have you with us ♪ ♪ Now here we go and here's our show that says a Merry Christmas! ♪ - ♪ A very ♪ - (trumpet tooting) - ♪ Merry ♪ - (cello strumming) ♪ Christmas! ♪ (drums banging) Hey, everybody. Attention. Now comes a big surprise. ALL: Oh. Hey, do you girls know this character at Disney? - Yes. - He's our father. Oh. (laughs) Ooh. DIANE: I'm Diane Disney Miller and Walt Disney was my father. I think by the time I was born, my dad was already well-known around the world because of Mickey Mouse. To Sharon and me, he was just our daddy. Over the next hour, you will see how Walt Disney celebrated Christmas in his work and get a very personal glimpse at how we celebrated Christmas at home. You'll discover some of Dad's favorite holiday memories, from all the wonderful ways he embraced the season to his very favorite way to celebrate Christmas... at Disneyland. (rhythmic whistling) DIANE: Dad had been playing with cameras, using cameras seriously, for many years by the time I was born. And, uh, at that time, also he had some pretty good cameras at his disposal. He had done baby photographs, reels of baby film, you know, professionally, to make ends meet when he was in Kansas City. It was only natural... that he'd do the same thing for his own children. And, uh, we have film of, uh, of a really... pretty good effort. SINGERS: ♪ We're the merry, merry men of the midnight sun ♪ ♪ We work for Santa and have a lot of fun ♪ ♪ With a hi-hi-ho and a hi-hi-hey ♪ ♪ We better hurry up tomorrow's Christmas Day ♪ SINGER: ♪ The night before Christmas... ♪ DIANE: Our Christmases were probably much like everybody else's. It was centered on family. I remember the first thing that would happen, the Nativity set would be brought out. It's funny, Dad has me waking and he probably says "wink at me" because I'm doing that throughout my life in these films. I remember I'd go to sleep at night, I'd sing myself to sleep with all the lyrics to all the Christmas carols. SINGER: ♪ With visions of Santa Claus ♪ ♪ Riding on end ♪ (quirky music playing) (light snoring) (objects clanging) DIANE: Christmas morning was always very, very special, very exciting, full of beauty and wonderment. (upbeat music playing throughout) DIANE: Well, I was born a week before Christmas, so this would have been my second Christmas, but I was just a year old. And I am surrounded by wind-up toys and all kinds of things. And the tree is as tall as the ceiling of our tall living room, just hung with tinsel and everything. (clamoring) (upbeat music playing) DIANE: The toy piano, that's probably my first piano, and it wasn't until I was seven that I got a real one. (piano music playing) (laughs) (sneezes) (clamoring) (upbeat music playing) (Santa laughs) DIANE: We had sort of a balcony just right outside my bedroom door that looked down on the living room. And to look down and see things that would never been there before. I especially remember the time there were two little ballet dresses out, a pink one and a blue one. Well, Santa had not brought those, my Aunt Grace had made them. And they hung on the tree, and then somehow, something called our attention right outside the big window, and we saw there was something out there that hadn't been there the day before. We ran outside and it was this beautiful, beautiful little playhouse. It looked like something out of Snow White. Had a little... it had running water, leaded glass windows, just so sweet, so beautiful. We ran in, the phone rang, there was a phone. And we picked up the phone, it was Santa Claus. And he said, "This is Santa. How do you like your playhouse?" And I think I said, "Santa, we like it." And we loved it for many years. SINGER: ♪ Have yourself ♪ ♪ A merry little Christmas ♪ ♪ Let your heart be light... ♪ DIANE: It wasn't until I was seven that I got a real watch. It was a sweet little watch, and it was engraved on the back, "To Diane, from Daddy." SINGER: ♪ And have yourself... ♪ DIANE: He was a wonderful dad. SINGER: ♪ A merry little Christmas... ♪ DIANE: He was so affectionate. ♪ ...now ♪ DIANE: That was probably the best Christmas. (upbeat music playing) DIANE: We went up to Big Bear, they had a little cabin. Mother and Dad, and my cousin Marjorie, her husband Bill. I just remember it as a warm, good time in the snow. (upbeat music playing) DIANE: I love seeing my dad on ice. I had taken my kids for skating lessons and I was describing how Walter used his arms in exactly the same way Dad's using them in this film, and Dad burst into giggles. (laughs) My mother was quite graceful, and she's skating around with an instructor. But Dad's out there, uh, and his moves are inherently comic. (upbeat music playing) DIANE: And you see, you know, Goofy in it as much as Mickey. (dramatic music playing) See? (laughs) There's nothing to it. (upbeat music playing) WALT: So you see, this is a result of being a good boy for 30 years. Santa finally came across. See the little throttle in there? See that thing there? This up here, this is the, uh... - (whistles) - ALL: Oh! - Whistle. - Mr. Disney. (man yodeling) NARRATOR: Skiing is fast becoming the most popular of all winter sports. And small wonder, for there is no finer conquest than that of a mountain, clad in its glorious winter mantle of glittering white. The first essential is the correct equipment. (dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: The choice of a sweater should reflect the taste of a true sportsman. In other words, studied carelessness. For after all, clothes do make the man. (dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: Now, we are completely dressed. (clears throat) NARRATOR: With the exception of the trousers. The trousers should be light, snow-repellent, with a hard, smooth finish. They should fit snugly, yet allow plenty of room at the hips, shoulders, and the knees. (quirky music playing) (clanking) NARRATOR: Now, we are all set and ready to conquer the heights. Upon reaching the summit, our first step is the turn into position. This is accomplished by the kick turn. One, knees and skis close together. Two, firm support on both poles. Now, a decided kick of left leg and ski, forward and high. Three, bring the ski down parallel, but with the point facing in the opposite direction. Four, swing the other ski around and drop it parallel to the first ski. This is really quite simple and can be easily mastered by the greenest amateur. For the first attempt, choose a gentle slope. We start with the joyous grandeur slope or hop. - And we are off. - (Goofy screaming) (quirky music playing) NARRATOR: Skiing is really quite simple once you get the hang of it. (man yodeling) (dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: A memory of wintertime long ago. Of clear, crisp air, of new fallen snow, of an etching of frost on a window pane, an echo of sleigh bells heard from the lane. Here in this wonderland, romance is the theme. Well, this is the story of love's young dream. DIANE: Christmas offered a unique opportunity for Dad to make his animated films even more special. In 1948, Once Upon a Wintertime became an instant classic. SINGER: ♪ Don't you kind of love December ♪ ♪ When the merry snow bells chime? ♪ ♪ We're together once upon ♪ ♪ A wintertime ♪ ♪ Every single snowflake falling ♪ ♪ Plays a jingle down your spine ♪ ♪ Lovely weather once upon a... ♪ DIANE: That's my Aunt Hazel with me in the front of the sleigh, and that's my mom in the back. SINGER: ♪ On a frozen pond folks are swaying ♪ ♪ Sweetheart, who cares? ♪ ♪ We'll have more fun sleighing ♪ ♪ Behind two chestnut mares ♪ ♪ When we say, "Goodbye, December" ♪ ♪ Merry bells no longer chime ♪ ♪ We'll remember once ♪ ♪ Upon a wintertime ♪ (upbeat music playing) SINGERS: ♪ Don't you kind of love December ♪ ♪ When the merry snow bells chime? ♪ ♪ We're together once upon a wintertime ♪ (vocalizing) - ♪ Every single snowflake falling ♪ - SINGERS: ♪ Ding dong, ding dong ♪ SINGERS: ♪ Plays a jingle down your spine ♪ SINGERS: ♪ Ding dong, ding dong ♪ SINGERS: ♪ Here we are together, lovely, lovely weather, once upon a wintertime ♪ SINGERS: ♪ Jingle bells, jingle bells jingle bells, jingle all the way ♪ SINGERS: ♪ On the frozen pond folks are swaying ♪ SINGER: ♪ Sweetheart, who cares? ♪ ♪ We'll have more fun sleighing ♪ ♪ Behind two chestnut mares ♪ SINGERS: ♪ When we say "Goodbye, December" ♪ ♪ Merry bells no longer chime ♪ ♪ We'll remember once upon a wintertime ♪ ♪ Remember December ♪ ♪ Once upon a wintertime! ♪ (video clicking) DIANE: Fortunately, Dad always found sponsors whose commercials were sometimes as entertaining as his shows. NARRATOR: Johnson & Johnson. The most trusted name in surgical dressings and in baby products brings you The Walt Disney Christmas Show. Today, Christmas Day, Johnson & Johnson dedicates this hour to the doctors, nurses, and interns. And to your family druggist who joins his skills with them to serve you. NURSE (on PA): Calling Santa Claus, calling Santa Claus, wanted in convalescent ward. (upbeat music playing) (shouting and yelling in joy throughout) Hey, Merry Christmas to you and to you. And what did you want, little girl? I want a dolly and if you don't want me to have a dolly... okay, then you can give me... one of them little things that you put babies in and, uh... that's about all, I think. (magical music playing) NARRATOR: Johnson & Johnson presents: The Walt Disney Christmas Show. Won't you have a group of young men in your studio? By day, they're artists, but at night, they become the most famous new band in the country. Firehouse Five Plus Two. I've danced to their music at night, and now I'm curious. Can the Magic Mirror show them at their daytime job? Sure. But Edgar, I'd like to say this about the boys. They never let their music interfere with their work. You watch. Mirror, mirror on the wall. Show the hardest workers here of all. Now through this wall, come thou with me down nearby hall and see what Master fondly calls the hardest workers here of all. (bell dinging) (man whistling) Monte? Hey, Monte? See if Walt's around. All clear. (bells jingling) (instrument chiming) (clarinet playing "Jingle Bells") (trumpet joins in) (trombone joins in) ("Jingle Bells" continues) "Dear boys, you look great. - Signed, Walt." - Walt? - ALL: Walt? - ("Jingle Bells" stops abruptly) The Magic Mirror! (dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: And now, from Lady and the Tramp. SINGER: ♪ Silent as a snowflake in the... ♪ DIANE: Dad never let a good gag get wasted. He... If he had a really good gag, he'd use it over and over again in many guises. And that was, uh, that was a thing that's seen in Lady and the Tramp. WALT: When we got our first home, I wanted a dog. My wife would have nothing to do with dogs. For some reason, she did not like dogs. I had a big hat box. I got a big ribbon on it. JIM: It's for you, Darling. Merry Christmas. Oh, Jim, dear. It's the one I was admiring, isn't it? Trimmed with ribbons? - (puppy whining) - JIM: Well, it has a ribbon. WALT: When she opened it, this little chow stuck its head out of there. And from that time on, that was her baby. DIANE: And she loved the dog. And, uh, they had it for many years. Okay, Pluto. Let's get our tree! (Pluto barking) - What was that? - I don't know. (dramatic music playing) Oh, boy. (Mickey whistling "Jingle Bells") (ornaments jangling) Hey, look out. Well, Pluto. That's it. (Christmas music playing) (light clicking) (sniffing) (nose squeaking) (gasps) (growling) (barking) (dramatic music playing) (crashing) (barking) - Ha! - Let's go! (quirky music playing) (crashing) Pluto, get out of there. What are you thinking? Hey, cut it out. Hey, watch out. You dumb mutt. Now look what you've done to our... Pluto, we've got chipmunks in our tree. (chuckles) Cute little fellas. - (Pluto barking) - Pluto. After all, it is Christmas. DONALD: ♪ Deck the halls with boughs of holly ♪ ♪ Fa la la la la, la la la la ♪ ♪ 'Tis the season to be jolly ♪ ♪ Fa la la la la, la la la la ♪ ♪ Don we now our gay apparel ♪ ♪ Fa la la la la, la la la la ♪ ♪ Troll the ancient Yuletide carol ♪ - ♪ Fa la la la la, la la la la ♪ - (howls) Boy, oh, boy. What a pleasant surprise. Whoops. Ah, now. Isn't that wonderful? Which one should I open first? My mama told me to take this one. I wonder what's in it. Oh, boy! Home movies! Just what I wanted. DIANE: In 1941, our parents went to South America. (upbeat music playing) MAN: Here in the studio, we set up in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, an improvised studio in a hotel. DIANE: I think it was on the trip... that trip to South America that Mary Blair's art first really caught Dad's attention. (upbeat music playing) DIANE: They were gone for three months in South America. And before they came home, they went on to New York for the premiere of Dumbo, which was a triumph. They came home a few days before the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. The very next morning, Dad got a call from the studio manager, "Walt, the army's moving in." MAN: In Hollywood, Walt Disney has turned over almost the entire facilities of his studio for the production of army and navy instructional films. WALT: Let's go with the Navy project 648, sequence one. Let her roll. DIANE: But the traditions of Christmas lived on. Out of that trip to South America came the film Saludos Amigos, which was followed by Tres Caballeros, which included a lovely piece of animation from Mary Blair, celebrating their tradition of Las Posadas. In Mexico, they sing Las Posadas. This custom takes place on each of the nine days before Christmas. Each evening, the children gather at the village church and form a procession, symbolizing the journey of Mary and Joseph from Nazareth to Bethlehem. The little ones carry images of the saints from house to house, singing a plea for shelter or "posada." A reply comes from within. No posada, no shelter. Looking sad and downhearted, they try again. But the reply is still the same. No shelter, no posada. They repeat their song time after time. And always they are refused. Until at last they reach a friendly house and the door is open. Come in, come in, holy pilgrims. This humble home is yours. And now Mary and Joseph have found shelter at last. Then the rejoicing begins. The feasting, the celebrating, and finally the biggest surprise of all, breaking the piñata. DIANE: In 1955, on Christmas Eve, floodwaters robbed the children of Yuba City of their Christmas. That February, Dad gave those children a special late Christmas gift... a surprise visit from his Mouseketeers. (heartwarming music playing) (music continues) It was a truly memorable live performance from Annette, Darlene, Bobby, and all the original Mouseketeers. (heartwarming music continues) One of the nicest things about the holiday season is exchanging greetings with our many friends, for these messages from all over the world represent the true spirit of Christmas in many different ways. SINGER: ♪ O Christmas tree ♪ ♪ O Christmas tree ♪ ♪ Thy leaves are so... ♪ DIANE: Christmas provided some of the most poignant moments in Dad's live action films. ♪ ...summer's here but also winter's cold and drear ♪ ♪ O Christmas tree ♪ ♪ O Christmas tree ♪ - ♪ Thy leaves are so... ♪ - (piano note plays out of tune) (note playing out of tune) Hmm, must've got it wet coming over. Mmm, I don't see how you ever managed to get it ashore. Well, I couldn't have done it alone. Fritz and Ernst helped out. (crickets chirping) Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Are we ever gonna open up these other packages? Those are for Fritz and Ernst. But suppose they don't come back? Suppose they got it up? Francis, it's been a long day and it's past your bedtime. Mm. But it's Christmas. Merry Christmas, sweetheart. I'll come up and say goodnight. All right. (playing "O Christmas Tree" on organ) (crying throughout) (distant singing) (dogs whimpering) SINGERS (distantly): ♪ How often has the Christmas tree ♪ ♪ Afforded me the greatest glee ♪ ♪ O Christmas tree ♪ ♪ O Christmas tree ♪ ♪ Much pleasure thou canst give me... ♪ It's Fritz and Ernst! What do you got there? FRANCIS: Did you bring me back my crocodile? ♪ O Christmas tree ♪ ♪ O Christmas tree ♪ ♪ Thy leaves are so unchanging ♪ Merry Christmas, Ma. (heartwarming music playing) Thank you. I wonder if it could be that oven-ware I've been looking at in the catalog. No, it's not heavy enough for the oven-ware. Come on, Liddy. Could be a comforter though. No, I guess it couldn't be a comforter. Liddy. Do Indians give Christmas presents, Nigosh? - Ma, if you don't open it, I'll... - Now you just leave me be. Once I get this open, there won't be another one until next Christmas. Could be toweling. I've been wanting that too. (sighs) All right, all right. I'm opening it. What could it be? (dramatic music playing) Oh. (sobbing) Ma. (crying) What is it? What's the matter? Don't you like... Pa, she doesn't like it. Liddy, we could've got beaver - but we figured... - Cam, Cam, Cam. Just sit. Don't you know a happy crying when you hear it? You go right ahead, Liddy. Enjoy yourself. (heartwarming music playing) ♪ It won't be long till Christmas ♪ ♪ Let them go ♪ BOTH: ♪ Let them go ♪ (video clicking) Well, New Year's Day is almost here and we're all getting set for the big parade. That is the Pasadena Tournament of Roses. I have the honor of being the Grand Marshal this year. And all the Disney characters are gonna be there with me in person. It's gonna be a great day for picture-taking. We're gonna have some beautiful floats. Eastman Kodak's gonna have a beautiful float too. So be sure you come well-prepared. That is with plenty of film, you know. (camera shutter clicks) (fanfare music playing) DIANE: Christmas of 1959, we were all preoccupied with what was going to happen in just six weeks. Dad had been chosen to produce all the pageantry of the upcoming Olympic Games at Squaw Valley, California. And to add to the excitement, it was the first time the Olympics would be broadcast live on American television. Dad enlisted my husband Ron Miller to coordinate all the pageantry for the event. RON: Prentis Hale had made an overture to Walt to get involved in the pageantry for the Squaw Valley Olympics. And Walt needed sort of an administrator representing the studi and trying to coordinate everything and I guess I was that guy in his mind And the opening ceremonies are just a few minutes away. From our position here at Blyth Arena in the center of the Olympic activity, here's my colleague Bud Palmer. Well, Walter, it's very comfortable up here in Blyth Arena. You can hear the amassed band behind us bring the salute. And with me is the man responsible for all the pageantry they're about to see, Walt Disney. And Walt, what's gonna come up in the next few minutes? Well, uh... this is the big opening day, you know, and I'm chairman of the Pageantry Committee. And the Pageantry Committee is charged with putting on the opening ceremonies, the daily victory ceremonies, the entertainment for the athletes, and to break it into detail, it's the carrying of the torch. The torch was flown from Norway to Los Angeles, and the site of the 1932 Olympics, and the flame was lit there. And 600 high school kids running up from Los Angeles up to here, we brought it in by sea. Today, it'll be brought down by Andrea Mead from the top of Papoose Peak and the... and the big flame here will be ignited. Okay. A wonderful time. And Art Linkletter is in charge of all the... Art is in charge of the entertainment. We're putting on entertainment every night in the Athlete's Village with the very best stars... we can gather. That indeed opens tonight. Well, that sounds great. DIANE: At this point in time, it was the best Olympic pageantry anybody had ever seen. At first, there was not enough snow. And everybody worried. And then there was too much snow. And it was so cold that the kids playing horns, their lips were freezing to the horns. That point, miraculously, there's a hole in the sky. It stopped snowing. Blue sky and Andrea Mead Lawrence skis down, ignites the torch, and then Art Linkletter says, he turned to Dad and said, "Walt, you must have connections up there." And Dad said, "No, I just think if you live right, things happen right." (channels clicking) - MAN: And here... - Excuse me, Walt, but would you please tell these kids of mine that there is gonna be a Christmas parade? They're driving me out of my... well, you know how kids are at Christmastime. I know. I have five grandchildren to answer to myself. Yes, there is gonna be a Christmas parade. Will Santa Claus be in it? In person. And the parade of the toys and a lot of other things, but you've got a lot of time before it starts, so you can go out and enjoy yourself but be back here on Main Street and get yourself a nice seat on the curb - so you won't miss anything, huh? - Thanks, Walt. I'm gonna be ready for a nice, comfortable curb in just a little while now. - Come on, Pop. Let's go. - All right. DIANE: Christmas had always been a special time for my dad, but Disneyland gave him the opportunity to really present something special. This is not Santa's workshop. It's just one section of a creative world where new attractions for Disneyland are conceived. DIANE: I remember several Christmases we went... we'd go down to the Miracle Mile, Wilshire Boulevard, and the May Company had great Christmas windows. I thought of Dad's fascination with those windows, our first Disneyland Christmas, and the windows in the emporium were so fantastic. And I was so happy to see that. And because I love Christmas windows, everybody did. At Disneyland, we do our Christmas planning early. Looking forward to it like a lot of happy kids. These are some of the models for our Christmas Fantasy on Parade. We prepare for this event as we do for all of our other attractions. Every Christmas season, thousands of children and their families line the curbs of Disneyland's Main Street, making it the happiest street in the world. (applause) It's getting near time, so you better hurry down there and get yourself a good spot on Main Street so you won't miss anything. - Thank you. - Thanks, Walt. - I hope you enjoy it. - Hurry up, Pop. It's almost parade time. (Walt chuckles) Well, by this time, there are several thousand people on both sides of Main Street. But we've reserved a very special place for you so you won't miss a thing. (fanfare playing) Well, that's my cue. I gotta take my place in the parade. I'll see you later. (fanfare playing) (upbeat music playing throughout) ANNOUNCER: Here's the Big Bad Wolf who has the Christmas spirit. (fanfare playing) DIANE: Christmas at Disneyland was really very exciting, very amazing thing, because we were in that little apartment which looked like a Christmas card and always a dear little Christmas tree. And so from that window, we would look down on Main Street and watch the parade. Christmas at Disneyland is perhaps the most important of all holidays, just as it is in other countries. To help fulfill the spirit and purpose for which Disneyland was conceived, many organizations, clubs, and historical societies are welcome here as Disneyland's guests. People from all over the world add to the pageantry and gaiety by keeping their traditions and customs alive as they enjoy themselves with their families. Palestine, where the first Christmas took place. Switzerland's St. Nicholas and these robed figures date back many centuries. ("The First Noel" playing) WALT: The traditional Yule log of medieval England. And the carrying in of a festive board. ("Hark! The Herald Angels Sing" playing) WALT: Finland's Old Man Christmas with his elves. Norway's Santa Claus with his traditional pet goat. Yugoslavia says Merry Christmas. Mexico on parade with their Christmas piñatas filled with candies and gifts. China. Japan. Disneyland is always happy to hold open house for these representatives of other lands to participate in these Christmas festivities. The Three Wise Men who followed the star to Bethlehem. ("God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen" playing) WALT: The candlelight procession now approaching down Disneyland's Main Street is composed of church and school choirs from all over Southern California. DIANE: The Christmas story was generally read by someone. I know Cary Grant did it once, Charlton Heston. But it was always someone with a wonderful presence and a wonderful voice. And it was beautiful words. Such a very lovely way to end a celebrative day. (fanfare playing) (trumpets and fanfare throughout) DIANE: And during the Christmas parades, Dad always had some children riding with him in whatever vehicle he was in. He was so excited when finally his grandchildren were old enough to ride with him. So for many years, this was so gratifying to Dad. And I was so pleased to have provided the grandchildren for him to do this with. (fanfare continues) PRESENTER: Here he is, the children's candidate for the most popular person in the world, Santa Claus. (applause) Thank you. Thank you, everyone. May we wish you the best of all possible things for this season and in the New Year to come. ("The Nutcracker" playing) DIANE: These memories are very special to me. I have loved revisiting them and sharing them with you. And I wanna wish you all a wonderful Christmas and a Happy New Year. ("The Nutcracker" continues throughout) Well, after all of that, there's not much left for me to say except to wish you Happy Holidays and the best of everything for the New Year. ("Joy to the World" playing) (music ends)