Transcript for All Male, All Nude: Johnsons (2019) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (moving string music) (glass shattering) (phone ringing) (traffic bustling) - [Answering Machine] You've reached Johnsons, South Florida's only speakeasy with male entertainment. We're open Wednesday through Sunday. Wednesday, Thursday, and Sunday is six to two, Friday and Saturday is six to three. Wednesday night is college and industry night, we have no cover all night long. Thursday a five dollar cover after eight o'clock. Fridays and Saturday a 10 dollar cover starting at eight o'clock. Come enjoy a night of beautiful boys and great music. Sundays there's a five dollar cover after eight o'clock. It's also our amateur contest, 200 dollar cash prize, the contest starts at 11. Happy hour's every day six to nine, half off cocktails and three dollars domestics, four dollar imports. For bottle reservations and all other inquiries, please leave a message. We are a 21 and up club. All ladies must be escorted by a male. (beep) (heavy rock music) ♪ Got love, got soul ♪ I'm gonna play my role ♪ Gonna buy, I'm sold ♪ I'm gonna fly, I'm gonna roll ♪ - My name is Matt Colunga and we're right in the middle of Johnsons. Johnsons is my baby, Johnsons is what I've wanted my entire life. From the moment you walk through the door, it's a non-smoking environment. We lease like a sent machine that you smell at nicer hotels. That puts a nice smell in the air, so as soon as you walk in it's like, wow this smells good, it doesn't smell like dirty dishwater, or a club that just got cleaned with bleach. The boys are gorgeous, whether you want small boys, medium boys, or big boys, we've got a little bit of everything. (muffled speaking over intercom) (thumping dance music) ♪ Hey there Superman, can you hear me ♪ ♪ Hey there Superman, look what you done ♪ - So here at Johnsons we have the two rooms. You have the speak easy side over there, the antiques, the copper bar, you got your little side stage with your pole, (mumbling) We open that up for happy hours from five to eight o'clock. Dancers go on at six o'clock, and it's one at a time, it's more quaint. Then at eight o'clock, our eight o'clock dancers get here, so then we're able to run both sides. ♪ You're my skin tight kryptonite ♪ ♪ Makin' me weak, got me (mumbles) ♪ - Then you have a wall in the middle, then you have a big stage on this side where the dancers are. ♪ We can try anything you want tonight ♪ ♪ You got it, you got it - Club's only 27 hundred square feet, I have seating for 128 people in here. 13 different types of seating. I wanted to make the most seating I could, cause a customer that can sit will stay longer than the one that has to stand. ♪ Yeah we're going down ♪ Yeah we headed south ♪ And we're mouth to mouth ♪ Were you ready for me - Everything in here's antiques, chandelier, red velvet, it's all reclaimed, it's all used, it all has a story. So all the furniture I have is all from strip clubs. Whether it's Swinging Richards, Pure Platinum, Solid Gold, two titty bars and a male strip club, that are local in town. ♪ Hey there Superman ♪ Can ya save me (announcer mumbling) ♪ Hey there Superman can ya give me some more ♪ - My name is Eduardo, (mumbling). I'm a server and I am also a dancer. You'll see when you first walk in is just our main bar, and it's just one side and it has one pole, that pole doesn't spin, dancers will know what I mean. And then the other side, the dark I like to call it, cause we got cookies and buns. It's the best time in the entire planet. Every time you go in there you're gonna have fun guaranteed. ♪ Are you ready for it (thumping dance music) - My name is Evan Pace and my stage name is Alexander. ♪ Are you ready for it ♪ Are you ready for it ♪ Are you ready for it ♪ Are you ready for it ♪ Are you ready for it ♪ Are you ready for it - [Evan] We're selling illusions, you know? We're selling a fantasy world. Matt is one of the most interesting people I've ever met. He's worked his butt off for a very long time, and I can just tell you that he is a genius, he is my mentor, he has taught a lot during my whole journey and I'm forever grateful. - So I'm Chris. (mumbling) My husband, Matthew, is the one that owns this place. (laughing) Keep in mind, Matt started at Swinging Richards when he was 20 years old, so he was a dancer before he was even legal at 21, and he's been in that industry for all of his adult life. With Swinging Richards alone, he was there 18 to 20 years, which is unheard of in this industry, So he's literally done it all. (upbeat dance music) - My name's Matt Colunga, I'm 32 years old, I've been her 12 years at Swinging Richards. I started dancing when I was 20 years old and I said I was only gonna do it for six months, then I danced for two and a half years, and then I started bar tending and started waiting tables, started DJing, and just moved in the management since then. At Swinging Richards I danced for a while, I waited tables, I bar tended, I worked the door, I worked the VIP door. I never thought I'd be a male dancer, and when I was 20 years old I moved to Atlanta, Georgia, my friends went to Swinging Richards when it first opened up, and I got on stage, and I got hired as a male dancer. (upbeat dance music) I said I'm only gonna do it for six months and I'll be out, I'll make a little money and get out. 23 years later I'm still in the business, but I love it, you know? I get a good group of boys, I put out a good product. (announcer mumbling) So I started DJing when I was 22. Here the songs, they gotta be four and a half minutes long, they can't be any more, cause their table dance is too long if it goes over four and a half minutes, so you gotta cut a portion of the song out and mix it with another portion of the song, while you're talkin' on the mic, while you're takin' care of customer problems, which it does keep me busy. (mumbling) At Swinging Richards I used to DJ four days a week, five days a week, especially during (mumbles) so it wears and tears on my vocal chords. 23 years old I took over Swinging Richards as their full time DJ and their general manager. You know, it's been a dream to have my own bar after all these years of working in the male strip club entertainment. I was looking for that right name, (mumbles) with Swinging Richards for so many years that kind of basically sent what I'm selling, and Johnsons says it all. I started looking for the right location to open my bar, and it's hard because there's so many things that, they don't want a male strip club, and the city really pushed back. I actually had a lot of people that said this place will never open. Fort Lauderdale only has four gay bars, but then you've got Wilton Manors right next to Fort Lauderdale with 11 gay bars, with only a population of 11 thousand people. 90% gay, it's the second gayest city in the country, next to San Francisco. When I opened up in the city of Wilton Manors, I wanted to open a bar, but I didn't want it to be in your face, I wanted it to be that hidden gem, that you wouldn't know about it, unless someone told you about it. So we've got that speakeasy door on there. From the outside you would never know what's on the inside, you go in and it's a whole different world. (energetic dance music) So, when It comes to strip clubs, there's lots of different definitions of strip clubs. Here we are in South Florida, Atlanta, or Portland, Oregon, a strip club is considered full nude. When you have a bar such as mine, where the guys strip down to their underwear, it's considered a go-go bar. So it depends on where you are. I consider, I own a strip club, I don't call it a go-go bar. The difference is my dancers go on stage fully clothed, and they strip down to their underwear, g-string, or jockstrap. You can wear a jockstrap in any city, except you just have to run the straps up the ass, because by all laws, genitals have to be covered, and your hole has to be covered. (slower dancing music) - Don't show your asshole on stage. ♪ Don't know what you're doin' to me ♪ ♪ But you better believe it - He would give you tips about everything, try to move more on stage, cause there's dancers that literally don't even move on stage sometimes. Make eye contact, be friendly. - I did teach my dancers a lot. Over the 23 years of being in the industry and everything, I've learned a lot. I've learned how to finesse customers. ♪ Dunno what you're doin' to me ♪ ♪ But boy you got me there - So I can see you dance more, less standing on stage. ♪ Yeah you know what you're doin' to me ♪ ♪ You got me heavy breathin' - [Matt] Remember, hey, this is a job, I'm here to make money. ♪ Got me actin' so crazy ♪ And baby I don't care - [Matt] Okay? It's not as simple as getting on stage and just taking your clothes off, a little work goes into it, you have to learn it. ♪ You do those things I know are forbidden ♪ - But when you're on stage you have to look at people when you dance for them, and that makes them feel like they're loved, makes you feel like they're dancing for you. ♪ Ben crossing all the lines now ♪ ♪ I try to keep hidden ♪ Losin' all control ♪ My body's shakin' ♪ Give me give me more - One of the things I tell my dancers, don't wear your baseball cap on stage, turn it around because the lights up top shadow your eyes and your eyes are your money maker. ♪ Underneath your clothes gotta get you naked ♪ ♪ I can't wait too long - [Matt] You have to stay on the outskirts of the stage, you stare at a customer's forehead, and if you stare at a customer's forehead from six feet away they can't tell that you're not looking in the eyes. Eye contact is everything in this industry. I tell them, hey make sure you get tipped at the top of the underwear, it's not a grab bag. ♪ Give me give me more (heavy breathing) ♪ In the danger zone ♪ I can't take it ♪ Give it to me more - [Matt] We're not tryin' to give the dancer paper cuts. As soon as you bend over, someone's tryin' to shove that dollar bill as far up your hole as they possibly can. It's funny how many dancers will come in here, and I say, okay what do you wanna dance by? And they'll come up with this most unrealistic, I wanna dance by Black Thunder. And it's like, okay, let's try to find something more realistic, because once you start telling customers your name is Black Thunder, they're gonna say, but what's your real name? And then you could end up telling them what the real name is and then they're gonna go by your real name, and they're gonna call and say hey, is so and so there? And I'ma think, who the fuck is that? - Yeah. (laughing) - Because I knew you by Black Thunder. So I said, lets try to find, and honestly, I dance by my real name, my husband danced by his real name, which (mumbles) because, what's a person gonna find out by your first name? They have to (mumbles) last name, they need your social security number, and so there's only so much they can find out about you. - My name's Hiquan, H-I-Q-U-A-N. My dancer name is Cole. ♪ Yeah you know what you're doin' to me ♪ ♪ You got me heavy breathin' - My middle name's Javier, and I use Javi for all my entertainment. ♪ Don't know what you're doin' to me ♪ ♪ But boy you got me there - You're getting really close and personal to a lot of people, you can't let them in, cause then they know where you live, then they know where to go when you don't answer. People get crazy, people legit forget that this is a fantasy, and that it's not real. ♪ Got me actin' so crazy ♪ And baby I don't care ♪ Losin' all control, my body's shakin' ♪ - My stage name is Sean Harding. ♪ Give me give me more - My name is Jose Gonzalez. ♪ I can't take it - Should I use my real name or? Raphael is like stage name. (thumping dance music) I love the job. (muffled announcer talking) It's pretty entertaining. (muffled announcer talking) I like to dance, I noted that I love the pole. I would like to have a pole in my house actually, just because of the art of doing it. ♪ You're funny little secret, dirty little secret ♪ ♪ Dirty dirty dirty ♪ I wanna be - [Jose] My first time dancing was like almost a year ago. ♪ Dirty little secret ♪ Dirty dirty dirty ♪ They get so confusing desires that you can't deny ♪ - When you work for someone for hours, and you have to clock in and clock out, and all the stuff, no. I have learned that that's not my style, that's not my thing. I was really scared at first, I was dancing in another club. In this kind of job you cannot afford to be shy. You have to go and talk to the most people that you can. ♪ I know your type baby, hungry ♪ - You have to go one by one, hey how are you? Hey how are you, are you having a good time? You like the club, is it your first time? You have to take risks. ♪ Boy I wanna be your dirty little secret ♪ - Another important thing are these, very important. (slapping) The money makers right here. This is the best investment ever. You don't have to have these, there's guys that just literally get money from their underwear. They just go like that and they have this mini ATM in their underwear. But I like to keep all my money here, or sometimes here on the sides, you know? ♪ Dirty dirty dirty - [Alexander] But these, this is the best investment ever. ♪ It's no illusion this fantasy you wanna try ♪ - I tell them when they come off stage, make sure to go around and thank all the customers that have tipped you. That opens it up normally for a table dance or a VIP. Never go and ask if you want a table dance or a VIP, cause straight up, you're gonna get turned down 90% of the time, cause that's coming off it's heavy hustle. So what you do is you find out who's tipping you, you go and sit down for a maximum of two songs, talk to em, where are you from, what do you do? At the end of two songs, say, you know what, it's been nice to meet you, I got bills to pay, I got college. That'll normally open it up for a table dance or VIP, or now they know you better, and they're gonna tip you better on stage, and form that relationship. ♪ Your dirty little secret ♪ Dirty little secret ♪ Dirty dirty dirty ♪ I wanna be your dirty little secret ♪ ♪ Dirty little secret ♪ Dirty dirty dirty - My name's Jeremiah Jacobs. I run the VIP and Johnsons Fort Lauderdale. That's pretty much where all the fun happens, and where the dancers make all their money. ♪ This feels dangerous ♪ I can hardly breathe ♪ Between the two of us ♪ Just our body heat yeah - It's 10 dollars for the customer to go back there, they get a wristband, it's good all night, and then it's 20 dollars a song. And they can do as many as they want. ♪ Gonna gonna gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give give give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give it gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give give give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give it gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give give give it to ya ♪ - I actually worked at Swinging Richards in Atlanta for about 12 years, maybe 12 plus years. ♪ We goin' all night ♪ I'm ready to blow ♪ Wanna get my hands all over you ♪ - I did everything from front door, bartending, and eventually I just ran the VIP. And then when Matt and Chris wanted to open their club, I obviously came down with them to help them. - They're a team, that's their club. Without Matt, there's no Chris, without Chris, there's no Matt. - Me and my partner have been together, my partner and I have been together, use correct grammar. My partner and I have been together, November will be 15 years. Been married five, I met him in 2003, when he just moved from Atlanta to San Francisco when he was part side manager of Pottery Barn and a part time male dancer. So it's not too often you get to view the equipment before you go out. So I got to see everything he had before hand, it was nice. - There's lots of ways the dancers can make money. Obviously the most money they can make is in the VIP with me. ♪ Gonna give it gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give give give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give it gonna give it to ya ♪ - They can do dances on a floor, those are like 10 dollars a song, they get tipped a lot on the stage. - I just did 50 dollars on stage, what?! - Most is back with me, lap dance is 20 a song, and then those rooms, it's a hundred dollars every 15 minutes they make plus tips I'm assuming. ♪ It's you and me just gettin' off ♪ - Since the club is so small, I didn't want to put a wall up creating another space, cause that would've taken up the main floor. So what we did is we put four big chairs, we have the curtains that rest against the wall, and then when you go in there with a dancer, the curtains wrap around the chair. This city said you can't have walls, we use curtains. The curtains are open in three ends, you're able to see in all three sides. People's overall look of a strip club is always gonna be drugged out boys, lots of drugs, alcoholics. I want to get away from that. My VIP room curtains don't close all the way, there's a gap, because where a lot of customers wanna go in that room and have it fully closed, why? Cause you're gonna do something illegal in there. And it's gonna get me shut down. - When I go into a lap dance room, I have my underwear on. It's a lap dance, it's a frictional lap dance, it's sensual, I sit on top of the customer, and you have to make them feel that that money that they're spending in that private dance is worthwhile, because that's what's gonna keep them coming back. The customer only has to pay a fee of 10 dollars to the VIP manager for one wristband the entire night. That's it, it's only 10 dollars, it's not expensive. I worked at other clubs and it's 20 dollars every time. What the dancer is charging you is supposed to be 20 dollars every song. I usually get customers to do one or two or three, sometimes a hundred bucks, that's great. You do three or four of those a night, and that's pretty good, that pays the bills. ♪ Gonna give it gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give give give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give it gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ Gonna give give give it to ya ♪ - When you're dancing to a guy that you think you really think that is hot, sometimes you get pretty horny. ♪ I got no more boundaries ♪ Do what you want to me - It really has to do with connecting with the customers, making them feel special, making them feel that they are loved, and really having a positive, uplifting attitude to make them feel like you're not so different from them. That they're not so different from you. ♪ It's just a physical attraction ♪ - People come here, most of the time it's because they want to see someone sexy, someone cute, but sometimes they are just looking for some attention, some conversation. Sometimes they just have a very stressful life and they want someone to talk about it, because outside no one cares, or no one pays them attention. - They really just want your support, and they really just want you to be sweet and nice, and loving, and that's what I'm really there to do. - My name is Roger and I am the front door guy. We have various different kinds of clientele. We've got our regulars that come in and this is their neighborhood bar with a little twist. We've got our folks that only come on a certain night. We have our high rollers that come every two weeks. We have our special daddies that come in, fly in from New York, some of them fly in from Chicago. They're the ones that they know what they want and then when they come in, they hit that ATM, and next thing you know, about a thousand dollars later, has been given away in 20 dollar bills to some of the hottest, sexiest dancers in South Florida. (muffled announcer speaking) ♪ Hey there Superman can you save me ♪ ♪ Hey there Superman can you give me some more ♪ - All the best dancers from a lot of clubs, a lot of them, Miami, they are all coming here. - My name's Joshua (mumbles) and this is one of my favorite places to go on the drive. I'm not real big into strip joints, so that says something about this place. - My name is Gibson. It's nice to come in here, it's relaxed, no body bothers you, everybody says hello. - It's something different that we haven't had on Wilton Drive. It's always a different experience. We have fun comin' here to see the different guys, but also just to see our friends that all show up here. It's a place really just to meet and come together. - It's literally like a gay Cheers, which I think is the best compliment we could ever have. - If you like to see nice young men doin' their thing on the dance floor, this is the place to come. ♪ Are you ready for it - I'm a artist, I'm actually a painter. Also I own my own art gallery thanks to this career, being a dancer, because it is a great opportunity for a young person to be able to make great money, and if you're smart enough and not wasted in, unfortunately some of the things that some dancers and strippers do waste money on, if you're smart enough and you save the money, and you know how to invest it, it is an incredible opportunity for you to be able to invest in something that maybe you've dream of like me. I really have dreamed of owning my own art gallery. I created my own studio in the back. I rent out other art studios to the other artists that I sublease the spaces for, and I wake up every day to an amazing community of artists. And this is really my dream come true. Just like people pay me money here at the artist warehouse to rent the different spaces, it's the same thing at Johnsons, charging dancers a house fee for the services Johnsons provides, entertainment services, when the dancer gets on stage, and services so dancers can take customers back to their lap dance room. ♪ Give give give it to ya - So I have been able to fund my own business out of dancing, out of being an artist, you understand? It is the perfect job for an artist. I came to the US from Cuba when I was 10 years old. I'm a Cuban-American artist, and my mother has always been supportive of me as a dancer. (thudding dance music) I am in a polyamorous relationship, and I have had other relationships while I'm still with my boyfriend actually, but my husband is like me, we have a lot of love. He loves going to Johnsons and flirting with the other boys and every week I have to fall in love with a new boy. They're so beautiful and I'm like oh. I can't handle it sometimes. ♪ Tryin' to get you naked ♪ I can taste it - When I first started dancing I was 19 years old. (thumping music) (muffled announcer speaking) Back when I was in high school, I actually started doing tattoos, I learned how to do a tattoos an I just found some equipment online and I did my own tattoos actually. I designed and tattooed myself. ♪ Losin' all control ♪ My body's shaking ♪ Give it give me more ♪ In the danger zone ♪ I can't take it ♪ Give it to me more - As a dancer, the automatic protocol when you walk into work is you see the front door guy, and you sign in, and you either pay your house fee, right then and there, or you can wait until the end of the night, so you have your choice there. - I prefer paying my house fee right when I come through the door. - We have to pay a house fee every night to be able to work there, and it ranges from 10 dollars, if you arrive at 6PM, then it's 20 dollars if you arrive at 8PM, and it would be 30 dollars if you arrive at 9PM. - So many dancers sign up for the six o'clock shift, so many dancers sign up for the eight o'clock shift, so many dancers sign up for the 10 o'clock shift, and then it gives a printout of every night, let me know which dancer's supposed to work at what time. And they have from six to 6:35 to get here, at 6:36 you now jump to an eight o'clock dancer and you're not payin' 10, you're payin' 20 bucks, so it gives them that incentive to get here a little bit earlier. (upbeat dance music) - Unlike a lot of clubs that I've worked at, Johnsons is a very caring, its a very family oriented business. I personally breathalyze every dancer at the end of the night, make sure they don't breathalyze over. - At the end of the night, at the end of your six hour shifts, cause it's only six hours, you go to Matt, ask if you can leave, he'll give you a slip, you take that slip to Jeremiah, which is VIP, and he breathalyzes the dancer. If you leave without getting breathalyzed, you are fired. - I pride myself, I watch over my boys, I do breathalyze my dancers before they leave, cause I wanna make sure they're able to drive home, they're safe on the road, not only for their life, but for other people's lives. - I normally get home around four 4:30. - I want them to come and look forward to coming to work, cause gonna be fun and you're with family, and it's exciting, and you can make money. ♪ They get so confusing desires that you can't deny ♪ - Cause every night is so different, every night is like an adventure. You don't know what gonna happen. ♪ I know your type baby hungry to explore ♪ - I tell my dancers straight up when I first hire them, I don't ask that they're gay or straight, for the majority of them you can tell, where they'll make comments of something sexual. Right now, 50% of my dancers are gay, 50% of them straight. - Have you ever heard about straight curious? I think I could be gay curious. ♪ I wanna be your dirty little secret dirty little secret ♪ - There's like the gays, and then there's the straight. And real straight guys, but we're all unified, we all really look up to each other, so it's a really nice environment, I think that that also has to do with what Matt has created, because Matt really, he's a genius in creating his environment. And we are all in our lockers, we all talk about money, we talk about girls, we talk about whatever the subject is, but we all have this little community in there. (mumbling) - I've never seen my balls this fucking swollen, they're swollen man, my penis is just (mumbles) but it's not swollen. - This right here is like the military right here. We all talk about money, the straight guys talk about their girls, we all talk about our stuff, the client, the customers, the stage, it's pretty fun. This is like one of the funest parts. Most of us, we get along, it's not like the Swinging Richards, we're opposite (mumbles) We used to fight all the time, there was a lot of rivalry. In this club, I dunno why, but we all help each other out, it's like a big family. ♪ I don't bite I've got the time baby ♪ - They're like a huge family, and I knew that from the second week. I was obsessed with working there. - We help each other, you know? It's like we feel protected by one another. ♪ Give me give me yourself ♪ Boy give me give me what I want ♪ - Nobody can judge anybody here. ♪ Boy can you hear me can you hear me ♪ ♪ Can you give me yourself ♪ Boy can you give me what I want ♪ - They are many straight guys over here. It's not like I'm the only straight guy, they have wives, they have kids, I go out, smoke a cigarette, we have a drink, we talk, you know? - We're not just strippers, we're men trying to make a living, trying to feed our kids, trying to live in our house. - You know, you find yourself with everything in the club. My best friend there, he works as a nurse during the day and at night he works at the club. There's another guy that works at a pet store. In my case, I work for children entertainment during the day, I dress as superheroes, either Spider-man, or Superman, Batman, all the superheroes can name. I think that Spider-man is really cool. It's a mystery because they don't know who I am, they can't see my face or anything, so I'm always masked. They always get to see the flips, and I also do that on stage. ♪ Boy can you give me what I want ♪ - One day, I texted Alexander, I said, dude you're supposed to be here at 6:30, he goes, I ran late with on of my kids parties, and he starts sending me pictures of him as Spider-man. (laughing) So driving down the road, sweat coming down, and the bottom part of his neck in a Spider-man costume. And I thought, aw, that's just too cute. - So this zipper's a pain in the ass, so usually I just tell somebody, hey can you help me out? And they're like, oh Spider-man is asking me to, Then they get kind of freaked out, but I think I got it. - [Matt] I have my dancers that go to college, and I have my dancers, - [Alexander] That have another job. - That have another job, but you never hear of one of your dancers dressing like a clown, dressing like a superhero, then he goes home, then he takes a nap, and he's a male dancer at night. - There's a big misconception about strippers, that it's a dirty lifestyle. I like to be unique, and I enjoy everything that I do. I wake up every single morning, knowing that I have a life full of joy, that I go to a club and I'm just laughing, dancing, I'm on a stage, and I'm making money. ♪ Let's make a break let's make a getaway ♪ ♪ Don't let the monsters bring me down ♪ ♪ They will eat your soul ♪ Blow up the bastards and just walk away ♪ - And I'm also bringing joy to other people, I'm bringing joy to children as well and making them have a good party, and also to the parents, because the parents also have a good time at the parties. The parents are expecting me to make their children happy, and when I go to an adult environment, I have to make sure that everybody is happy. (upbeat dance music) The hardest days, I get four parties a day, and then as soon as I finish my parties, I would come over here. My thongs. (laughing) I don't wear jockstraps My hair, I don't wanna mess up my hair. Ugh, these skinny jeans, man. And there's guys on stage that take em off just like that. (upbeat dance music) (slapping) So today I have five parties. There's gonna be like a three hour gap. I might go to the gym, and I brought my meal prep here with me. For superheroes, I usually wear this vaginer, because it vagines my penis. It gets it nice and flat. You don't have your balls hangin' all over the place, so it's nice and static. You don't (mumbles) cause we wanna make it as rated G as possible. If there's not kids around, or if there's nobody around, I would usually just change outside and no Fs given. Right now, since the kids are walkin' over there, and with their parents, I think I'm just gonna change inside. I shave my pubes, my armpits, my butt hole, I shave it all. Oh, but I don't shave here though, cause I never grow hair here. Where's my shirt? Your adulthood is a reflection of your childhood, so you have to treat children like the best thing on the planet, because they will remember and forever, forever. We're gonna hit the gym right now. (steady dance music) Now we have another party and we're gonna be Harry Potter. We're gonna be Harry Potter. (in an British accent) Harry Potter! (upbeat bright music) Bubbles for the magic sword. (muffled speaking) I gotta piss, have you ever seen Harry Potter takin' a piss? (upbeat bright music) When people ask me what I do for a living, I usually tell them that I am a dancer, and I'm an entertainer, so, oh, entertainer, so what do you entertain? Well first off I start with the appetizer, I dress as Spider-man, and they say aww. And then the next set, which is the entrée, I tell em, hey you know, besides that, that's my part time job, but actually my full time job, is working as a dancer, and then everybody goes whoa! Not everybody knows that I work as a dancer. My mother knows, I told her straight up. This is something that I enjoy and I'm not gonna stop doing things that I enjoy. ♪ It's goin' down ♪ It's goin' down - You have control over your creativity. I love to live, that's the problem, I love to live. ♪ It's goin' down - I love to make money. After a long day of entertaining children and adults, making people happy, I come back home, after working really hard, and I turn on the candles, and maybe I could play the guitar, I meditate. (guitar strumming) (singing in Spanish) Originally from New York, I was raised in Bolivia. My father's from Portugal and my mother's from Bolivia, so that's like a chihuahua with a golden retriever, some weird shit. (laughing) But I was raised in Bolivia and then I came here, I came back to the states, to Miami, when I was 19 years old, with 500 dollars. So 500 dollars and it was pretty much a struggle, so I got into male dancing, and I walked up to Matt, he was a DJ, so I just walked up to his booth, and I asked him, can I work for you? (mumbles) He said, come on Sunday night, cause Sunday nights are the nights that are not the busiest, so he can take a look at me, and that's it, so I went there, and that's how everything started. And then, one day, I came with my face beaten up. He said, what happened, and I kinda wanted to hide it from him. I was in a bad relationship. - Abusive relationship. - He helped me also get out of it. When I first met Matt, I had a black eye, and I ended up in jail, and because of domestic violence. The dancers, my coworkers, and my friends there were really helping me out going through that whole situation. Matt is the most interesting person I (talking over each other) The most unique person I've ever met. - I really care about my dancers a lot. I want them to come here, I want this to be a stepping stone in their life. I want them to work here six months, a year, make several thousand dollars, put it in savings, go after their dreams, do something they wanna do. A lot of my guys are competitors in body building, so we sit there and from my DJ booth we'll look at each other and flex, and they'll flex, and we have a good time. (mumbling) I competed 11 times, I won five shows. I went from being a chubby kid, I got bullied in high school, I got bullied in junior high, I remember going home and crying a lot and I didn't wanna go to school. I wanna do one more body building show. This will be my twelfth show, one more show before I open up the Dallas club, cause once I have two night clubs, I won't have any time on my hands to do anything else. I've already got lots of staff that work for me, since I worked for Swinging Richards for so long, and this, I'm in the industry, and I know a lot of people, I'm ready to open there and have staff to fill it. Everyone has a story, everyone's tryin' to be bigger and better, you know? - My name is Luis Felipe (mumbles) I was 17 when I first jumped on a pole. I suffered a lot when I was a little kid, not like suffer suffer, you know? But I received a lot of bullying, and all these you see, it wasn't here. (thumping dance music) ♪ Feelin' out a fantasy - My face was full of pimples, so I was never told that I was beautiful. (energetic dance music) I came from Columbia when I was 16 years old. On my hat it says LF and it's my name, Luis Felipe. You gotta be original in this life, it's too many copies, everybody wants to do the same shit. Something different. (thumping dance music) - The best thing about working here is easy money. - You can clock off with a very very decent amount of money. Sometimes what people make in a whole entire night, on a regular nine to five job, a low income night would probably be like a bad bad day working 250 dollars, 200. I know for a lot of people it might sound a lot, but for us, as dancers, we know that that could be a very slow night. Now when it comes to a very good night, you can earn from 800 to 13 hundred dollars a night, the dancers, we all call it the ocean, you never know what's gonna happen. You never know when is the biggest wave gonna happen. (muffled announcer talking) - I made 16 hundred dollars in one night. ♪ Feeling on a fantasy ♪ Really slows you down (mumbling) - This is what happens when you work at Johnsons, you make money honey. ♪ Though your body's kind of licorice ♪ ♪ Cookie cutter steals the show ♪ - One night, there's plenty more to go. My name's Omar Manseur. (talking over each other) I worked at Johnsons bar in Fort Lauderdale, I'm a bar tender over there. I've known Matt for about seven years, and I was supposed to work for him seven years ago, but now I'm finally, I'm a part of his team, and I couldn't be happier. I've worked in other night clubs similar to Johnsons, but Johnsons is by far the cleanest, most well ran gay strip club in the whole of South Florida. - Lot of the dancers live in South Beach, and South Beach to Wilton Manors, depending on what time you come, takes an hour and 10, and hour and 15 minutes to drive. It's only 30 miles away, but with traffic and everything, you're looking over an hour drive to get to work, over an hour drive to get home, to come to a small little club in Wilton Manors, Florida. (traffic noises) So the boys do pretty good. A lot of the boys said they average five to 700 a night. I've had dancers say they made a thousand in there, and then sometimes you have your nights where dancer didn't try as hard, and he said, Matt, I only made a hundred dollars. I have sent, probably, I dunno, 150 a week of my own money to my boys. If I see them up there doin' bad, (mumbling) I give 20, 30 bucks to a customer, saying, hey, will you go tip that dancer for me? I don't want them to know it's comin' from me, cause I don't want them feelin' it's pity dollars. But I don't want them to have a bad night. - He's a nice dude I have to say. I have to say that the first night that I started working here, one of the dancers, that I think that had been dancing for him for a long time, he told me, you don't know him yet, but when you get to know him, he could be maybe the best boss that you're gonna work for. - I met Matt at Swinging Richards and I did a contest. I got second place out of nine dancers, but he let me work, you know? - It's hard being a stripper. Whoever thinks that stripping is easy, it's not, at all. (laughing) Ever. ♪ Feel your soul ♪ Turn to salt ♪ How much more until you give it up ♪ - If stripping was easy, everybody would be doing it, but it's not, it takes a huge emotional toll. I am a native to Florida, I was born in Crow Springs. My history at Johnsons consist of, being pretty much dead broke, walking in there as a dancer, cause I was living with my grandparents. One reason I'm working at Johnsons is because Johnsons really does pay for school. I'm currently studying cosmetology, and I'm actually finished with school, I did my 12 hundred hours, however, now I need to take my cosmetology state board exam, and that's a pretty big test. Believe it or not, I'm really shy. I'm like really really shy. And people wouldn't think that I could talk a lot, and I'm very expressive on stage, but I started not making money as a dancer, and if you're not making money as a dancer, you're not paying your bills, so he put me on board to be a server. What I learned about stripping from a waiter's perspective, that's when I learned it's an art, a seduction. I see the way the men move. I see how they talk to people. I see how they touch people. So that gave me a really good upper hand, because I'm really socially awkward. I'm not dancing to look good, if it looks good, that's just a plus. A lot of people told me before, that you can tell that you're just having fun up there, you're having a blast on the pole, and I am. And I think that's important, you need to have fun. You can't be too serious dancing, cause then you look weird. Night life really does take a toll on you, mentally, physically, emotionally, it throws your mood off sometimes, your sleep schedule. Sometimes it can even really interfere with your daily life. Cause I know some people that don't even wake up until 5 o'clock, where your whole day's basically gone. Cause I don't even go to sleep till six sometimes. And I'm off and home at 4:30, that's night life. It takes a toll on you. People don't realize how hard it actually is to do, to go up to someone in your underwear and seduce them. It really is a really high pressure job, and then dealing with just people touching you. So when I do a VIP, I'm dancing, lookin' all sexy, and then they start tryin' to grab things that they shouldn't be grabbin', holes that should not be touched. What people seem to forget is that we're selling a fantasy. It's hard, the drunk people, the cigarette breath, the dick breath, I'm acting like I like you touching me. I'm acting like I care about your dirty golf balls that you clean one by one. I'm acting like I know you're not, you're a little beyond tipsy. I'm acting like I don't know that, but it's a fantasy, I'm putting on a fantasy, even as a server you have to put on the fantasy. I let them touch my butt. If I get a boner, cause I'm young and I get a boner, I'm like, hey look what you made me do. And I just kinda rub it and I'm like, thanks. It's an art, seductions an art, for sure. I have learned to be confident from working at Johnsons. - So what I do, is as my boys come in, I write 'em down on a sheet of paper, and if they're a good dancer. I'll put a good dancer here, if it's another good dancer, I'll space em out down here, another good dancer, I'll space em out. I space all my good dancers out, and then I fill em in with the boys that don't know how to dance. So that way, every rotation, you at least got one dancer that's on stage, that can dance. That keeps it entertaining. So then what I'll do is, I'll go down, it's like three dancers, three and the fourth one on the side, and I write side next to them, then I write three more, ah, side. And then as you roll around, the one's that have been side don't go back over there again. (mumbling) 75% of the dancers, they end up being on side stage. I try to explain to them, if you're on side stage, try a little bit, dance a little bit, but they feel like that's hell over there. There's 60 people in that room. You got the whole stage to yourself, the whole room to yourself. - It's about personality, it's a show that I make. And people love that, they love seeing someone on the pole, swingin', right, swinging doesn't work. (energetic dance music) - So usually the range of dancers, the number of dancers that go on stage together, are two to four, sometimes singles if you're a great dancer. There's side stage where one dancer goes and dances there. - I try to keep one on the side stage and three to four on the main stage. They dance for a three song rotation. I want them to take it off slowly, make it enticing, tease a little bit, look in the customers' eyes, make it about them. - The stage is like a cover of the magazine, that's what I like to call it, the cover of the magazine where everybody knows who you are. So you can publicize yourself, and you have to do the best to publicize yourself, so when you get off stage, you can keep making money. - So when I'm going to call for dancers, I'll give them a one song notice, as I'm going into the third song of the set that's on stage, I'll give them a one song notice. I'll say, third and final song for Jason, Brian, Alexander, and so and so, coming up next, and I'll say it three or four times, cause some of them can't seem to hear, especially in the smoking section back there. A dancer's back there. So they get that one song notice that gives them three or four minutes wherever they are to go get ready, put some clothes on, cause I hate when they got on stage in just their underwear. (muffled announcing) - Alexander on stage. (laughing) (mumbling) - Looking for Alexander. (talking over each other) (muffled announcing) (upbeat music) Then everybody comes in and says, did you ever DJ in Atlanta, and I'll say yes, I've DJed at Swinging Richards. They go, oh that's where I've heard you before. (muffled announcing) - [Mikey] I worked at Swinging Richards for the majority of my time in dancing, almost seven, eight years now, and it's been great. ♪ I don't bite I got the time baby ♪ - It is great dancing, it's fun. You make great money and you have fun while doing it. Believe it or not, dancing can bring you six figures and very easily, so why not? You can do this at night, have a career, or a day job during the day, and it's just great living. And it's fun. I've known Matt for many years. Clubs have treated me well, and I don't think I would stop until they don't want me no more. - I have a scheduling system for my dancers here, they pick the times they wanna work, the days they wanna work, and if a dancer misses a shift, and they don't call or text me, they lose a Friday shift. - The rules of our job is to be on time. It's like any job in the world. You have to be there on time, you have to be disciplined about it. You can't just arrive at any time, you can't just be drunk at work either. You have to maintain a certain discipline. - I tell the dancers, this is the schedule you made. The dancers choose what days they wanna work. They choose what times they wanna come in. If a dancer is going to miss that day, they have to call or text me and say, hey I'm missing this day. It's not hard, it's easy. That lets me know what dancers are coming. If they don't come and they don't call, and they do a no call no show, then they lose their Friday shift, cause it's easier just to take away their shift, fill it with another dancer that wants to work that couldn't get on, and now the dancer's gotta think, shit, how much money could I have made on Friday? You could have made a thousand dollars on Friday, you'll never know, but I guarantee they never ya they never no call no show again. If a dancer was going to come to work with a better attitude, knowing there's only gonna be this many boys. Where at Swinging Richards or Boardwalk, or some of the other places, they run as many dancers as they possibly can, and what happens when you have so many dancers in such a small space, they turn into hustlers, where you have dancers breathing down your neck, constantly massaging you, wanting money for every little thing, because they've got to, to make the money. So now when you come into my club, you know you've got six or seven twinks, six or seven middle boys, six or seven big boys, and it's a little bit of everything. It's a nice variety, and the boys don't have to hustle to make money because there's only a couple that look like them. So I have 20 boys on the weekdays, and then 30 on the weekends. - There's talent in stripping, it's an art. It's the art of seduction. - It's art, ya know? Between working out, dancing, it's all about your body, and personality. - Whether you're small, medium, or large, you better be top-toned. And when my boys get a little chubby, I'll grab the fat on them and let them know. (mumbles) It's time to hit the cardio, cause nobody comes to see a fat stripper. Average is everywhere else, I don't sell average, I sell above. - Do you see these kid's diets? Do you see the stress that they put on themselves? To look that good, all the time, it takes a huge toll on your mental health. - I try to maintain my physique as best as possible. I hit the gym every single day, that's part of being able to work here. You have to be in good shape. The stage is part of my daily routine, you burn a lot of calories doing six sets a night. - I normally work out six times, six to five times per week. I used to hate Matt, because the first time I came here, I wanted to start working here, and he was outside, I didn't know if he was the owner, the manager, or whatever he was, but he was outside, and I asked him, hey, do you know the owner or the manager, I don't remember what he told me, but I told him that I wanted to start working here. And he told me that you need to lose a little bit of weight. Come back when you lose a little bit of weight. And I was like oh, nice, this dude just called me fat. ♪ Boy can you give me can you give me ♪ ♪ can you give me yourself ♪ Boy can you give me what I want ♪ ♪ Boy can you give me can you give me ♪ ♪ Can you give me yourself ♪ Boy can you give me what I want ♪ - When I get a new dancer, I tell them, (mumbling) Hey, I've never danced before, this is my first time, cause customers eat that shit up. They love hearing that someone's fresh. And maybe I can take advantage of him, but as long as the dancer's got in his head, this are my boundaries, this is what I'm gonna do, I'm not gonna cross that line, you're good to go. - Yeah, and this is his first night dancin'. (mumbling) - You don't wanna act mean on him, or nothin' like that, but at the same time, you gotta be like, you gotta set boundaries too, otherwise then people think you soft, they gonna try you. ♪ Boy can you give me can you give me ♪ ♪ Can you give me yourself ♪ Boy can you give me what I want ♪ ♪ Dirty dirty dirty - This is my first time dancing. Usually I do porn, escorting. I love being naked and having fun, so sex work is my industry, so I have fun with it. It's my first night here. ♪ Tonight will be a relief - I have a singlet on, which I know you have to have jockstraps shoved up your butt, but I think it's still different. (mumbling) I've always been like a socially awkward person. I have social anxiety and being around large crowds, but I can shift into a different mindset when I'm in situations like this. - My porn persona is a different person than who I am in day to day life. If I go on set I get into a character, and if I'm here, it's the same character. ♪ Tonight I learn to be free (muffled announcer speaking) - My first night dancing at Johnsons last night, it was a lot of fun. There was a lot of hot male dancers, I was their first hairy dancer they've had in a while. ♪ Give me that now yeah - Because I'm already cursed as a little white boy with no rhythm, so dancin' to the songs was a little awkward. Early in the night the main stage is kinda closed off, so there's just a little bitty one person pole that you kinda cycle through till the crowd gets bigger. When you're on the main stage, there's two or three other dancers, so it's not like all eyes are on you, it's a little easier to work at. You have some company on stage. ♪ Givin' up givin' up givin' up ♪ ♪ Givin' up givin' up givin' up ♪ ♪ Givin' up givin' up - We're at my apartment and about to do a just for fans video shoot with another porn actor, who lives here in Fort Lauderdale. His name is Hunter Scott, and he's like a big bear guy. - Dude this is so nice. - I had a friend who used to escort and he's like it's a lot of fun, it's not weird people, you'll make a lot of money, so I was like, sure, why not, I'll try it. And then the money just kept rollin' in, and I actually kind of started enjoying myself doin' it. You'd be surprised, escorting is maybe about 40% sex. A lot of times there's actually no physical contact. Sometimes people just want company. That kinda opened up into the porn industry. - Sean and I have been talkin' about workin' together for a while, and this is kind of like a warm-up, because we're gonna do this. It's a little more amateur-ish, and a little more laid back than doing a full studio scene. It's all about body positivity and really hot sex. So it's a little awkward when we go to the health department to be tested and they're like, how many partners have you had in the last 12 months? I'm sitting there having to count on my fingers. - I just say a lot. - More than 20, oh okay, you're high risk. You work tonight? - No, not dancin' tonight. - So you're off the rest of the day? - I have a client tonight, but. - Oo, gosh, I haven't had a client in three weeks. Wilton is the island of misfit toys, It's like the Venice of the south, and there's a lot of waterways, it definitely lends to a very tropical atmosphere. When you're down here you feel like you're on vacation, but there's been a ton of development in the last 50 years. You look at pictures from Fort Lauderdale Beach and Wilton from the 60s, it's much more sparse, we were not dearly as dense, we're not nearly as gay. - So Wilton Manors is considered an island. It's got these canals that go all the way around the island and it links in to the inner coastal. This waterway will take you directly to the ocean. It's a long ass trip, but it'll take you directly to the ocean. - We are just north of Fort Lauderdale. I'm Gary Resnick, I have the privilege of being the mayor of the city of Wilton Manors, Florida. I've been the mayor for 10 years, and I've been on the city commissions since 1998, which apparently make me the longest serving, openly gay elected official in the state. We're actually known as the island city, because we are surrounded by the North Fork in the Middle River. Our waterways are actually a recreational resource, we got a lot of people that boat, that kayak, that paddle board, whatever around our waterways. And we have the distinct honor, according to the census, of being the second highest gay and lesbian city in the country per capita. It's a really wonderful community, we have great neighborhoods, an incredibly thriving downtown area, Wilton Drive, if you come in on a Friday or Saturday, it's packed. And it's a variety of things. There's dance bars, there's sitting around drinking bars, there's video bars, there's some bars where you can have a great conversation, there's some bars that are super loud where you can't hear each other at all. There's bars for athletes, there's piano bars. There's the real variety of everything that you want in an entertainment area. We were actually ranked the best city in Florida for walkability. Wilton Manors has had incredible achievements. Very proud of what we've accomplished, especially in the 10 years since I've been mayor. When I first was elected in 1998, one of the first things we did was create domestic partner benefits for our employees. We were one of the first cities in Florida to do that. We're two square miles, so we're small. Matt came to me, he also was living in the city, and he wanted to give back to the community, so he was looking for a charity or some organization that he could give to. - I made a promise when I open my own club that when I have my own business, I'd give back to the community. - So he came in and decided to make a five thousand dollar contribution to Wilton Manors to support our after school program. And he had a mock up of a large check made, cause he was gonna do this at a city commission meeting, and the check said Johnsons, and so, some city officials were a little leery about accepting a contribution from Johnsons, because of the type of entertainment that they have in the bar. - (mumbles) that five thousand dollar donation. - [Voice On Phone] I think there's a misunderstanding. This donation is actually from an individual who is a resident of the city of Wilton Manors. It happens to be the manager of a business in the city, but it is not from the business. - [Female Speaker] The check was received from James Colunga. - Excellent, and it was not from Johnsons. - [Female Speaker] Correct. - It'll be unfortunate to deny this gracious offer to assist the children of Wilton Manors. I also believe that when you're making your decision tonight to actually weight in on what Johnsons is. It is a business on the Drive. They actually breathalyze their own staff before they're allowed to leave to ensure that their staff don't become a danger to the community. Other bars of this nature don't do that. Other bars of this nature have actually had accidents on Wilton Drive. I hope that you will vote responsibly, and that you vote in favor of accepting the check. May name's Laymon Rupe, I live in Wilton Manors, and Johnsons on the Drive is a preferred location for me, because it's a clean establishment, smoke free, the owners are friendly, and the people that work there make me feel like I'm welcome every time I show up. It's a draw to the Drive, it brings people that normally wouldn't be on the Drive. The donation was based on the fact that they are, and want to be a good actor in the community, and that's important to kind of let that be recognized. - So Matt's donated money to the community and to the after school program, which is the first time we've ever seen a club on the Drive do something like that. - They said the parents, which I think is total bullshit, the parents said that they didn't want the money coming from a strip club. I said, technically, we're not a strip club. We're a go-go bar just like every other bar on this drive, we have go-go dancers, where the other bars, the go-go dancers are a side attraction, they're the main attraction in our bar. - We accepted the five thousand dollar contribution. We're very grateful for that type of support. I think that's the largest contribution we've received from a business owner for the benefit of our after school program. So it sets the bar, which is great. - The sense of community here on Wilton Drive, from the business owners is challenging. - I got told that I wouldn't open, cause they don't want that type of environment here. - A couple of our competitors have been calling on different issues that they said we're violating, whether it's the way we order our liquor, or the way we park our cars, all this stuff, so we're constantly having people come and check in on us to make sure we're doing everything correctly. So last week we had the state of Florida here checkin' all of our liquor, everything was good. Florida state police here, checkin' our VIP rooms, everything was good. Latest thing is, now, city of Wilton Manors has said we can no longer park on this mulched area here. They said that only churches and non profits can actually park on grass in their area. People do worship here, but it's not classified as a church, unfortunately. And we do make a tiny little profit, so we're non profit either. We've been using it for the year that we've been open and now because someone, our competition, the way they say is Mister Anonymous, called and complained about it, and said it's against code, and when they pulled the code, and were like, well technically it's against code, (mumbling) - So they want me to plant bushes all through here, all the way here to meet these other bushes, and leave this as green space. (mumbling) (talking over each other) - There's a lot of judgements, even though everyone watches porn, even though everyone comes out to strip clubs and they kind of think of you as a lesser person. - Everyone always has that general consensus, that strippers are trashy. ♪ Dirty dirty dirty (muffled announcer speaking) - It's really frowned upon in society, if you say you're a stripper, you're deemed as a slut, that's it. - Oh I'm very public about it, I don't care. I don't tell my family just because of, it's unnecessary, but if I'm out there with someone I don't really know, I will tell them, oh what do you do? I'm a stripper, if you like it or not, that's your choice. - I have been around as a stripper for a very long time. I see a lot of abuse of drugs and liquor. I'm not innocent, I've done a lot of, I mean my first four or five years of being a dancer, I saw a lot of it because I was doing it. - Some dancers tend to spiral down in this environment. You're working nights now, I've been working nights for 23 years of my life. I don't go home and I don't go to bed till four in the morning. - So I was working at Johnsons, everything was fine. A client informs Matt that I was in the back crying about a dancer there, and I lost my temper. It was bad, and I miss them so much, cause they're like family. - You have to sometimes be able to step back and look at yourself, and see why you're doing this. Some dancers, when they do start dancing, and they are given this new stripper name, or dancer name, this new identity, some of them do lose themselves in that name actually. And in fact, they'll forget, some of them will literally actually forget about who they used to be. - That stripper life will eat you, chew, swallow, shit you out, step on you, eat you again, and spit you back out. And you know what you're wanting? More. - I just really hope I can get my life back together. I really hope I can mend my relationships back at Johnsons, I don't even have to work there again. It's just they're such amazing people, why would you not want that energy in your life? After about three months, if you're really in it, you just kind of forget yourself. And that's something that strippers never talk about. They always talk about the money and the fame, and the fortune and (mumbles) and the this, and they don't talk about, oh, who was I before I walked through those doors? Because how can people talk about it, if they're all lost? What are they gonna find? You're blinded, you can't see life. You're blinded by all the lights in your face, and all that money, the potential in dancing, really is limited, gravity's against everyone. Stripping is a hard job and it's very, physically, mentally, spiritually challenging, but don't be a stripper, because it's hard to get out of. Losing this job and losing the opportunity that was given, that made me say goodbye to Javi, and made me rediscover who Eddie was, made me rediscover where I came from and why I wanted that job in the first place. What was my purpose in getting this job? And it's to pay for school. - It's a hard life, you know? You're livin' the night life, you're not goin' to bed till four or five in the morning, you're sleeping till noon, you wake up, your day is gone, next thing you know, it's time to get back to work again. - No matter how hard it gets, no matter how tough it is, there's always a bigger dick. (laughing) My life now, after I left Johnsons, is great, I'm a cosmologist, I work at a salon, I'm glad that my life is better, mentally, physically, job-wise, I'm so grateful for that. And I'm especially grateful for Matt. - I do my best, I wanna see the best for them. (thumping dance music) I have had boys over the years that get into the drugs and stuff. And I'll pull 'em aside and I'll tell them, it's not the right, trust me, I've been there, I've done the drugs, I've done my share of all sorts of things, but I'm speaking from a 42 year-old's perspective. I'm more like a father, and I try to treat them like they're all my kids. I wanna see the best for them. I do want the best for them. Sometimes they don't listen, sometimes I suspend them, or I'll have to get rid of em. And they just keep following that bad road and I've had my share of dancers that have overdosed and stuff, that have stopped working for me. I couldn't help them, and I couldn't fix em. You go to bed every night thinking, could I have done something else for them? ♪ Nothin's gonna change nothin's gonna change till you try ♪ - All of our boys are family. Some of them will hang out when we're not here. A lot of them we're really good friends with. If they need something, if they need a couple days off, they just talk to Matt, and it's like, I'm goin' through some stuff right now, I need to take a couple weeks off, alright dude, no problem, come back when you're ready. It's really just a family environment, same with our staff, us and all of our staff will go out and do escape rooms, or go bowling, or somethin' like that. Not because we have to go out and do team building, but it's cause we all wanna hang out together, we like it, we have fun. - To my bar tenders, my doors, my waiters, everyone gets along, everyone fixes the problem together, it's awesome, I couldn't ask for a better staff. My boys, all my dancers are nice, they're sweet. They're polite, they all say they enjoy coming to work. And I think that's very important. There's so many people, (mumbles) Just get a job, don't worry about what it is. You could be in a cubical the rest of your life, but you'll have a retirement. I'm sorry, that's no way to live. I came out to my dad when I was 20 years old and he disowned me. And that was the hardest part of my life. He told me I was no longer a part of his family, and I no longer had brothers and sisters anymore. It was hard, cause I was in a big city by myself, I was a male dancer, and now I just lost half my family. So when I moved to LA (mumbles) I started working at 20 years old, then I started stripping at 20 years old, and then at 27 years old I met (mumbles) hey I wanna do a body building show. Well the kind of shape I was used to being in for good shape, and the kind of shape you have to be in for a body building show are two totally different things. I haven't competed in four years, but I figure it gave me focus. I'm looking forward to opening a Dallas club, but the same time, I didn't wanna regret never doing another body building show. I compete today, I've been dieting for the last 15 weeks. I haven't competed in four years, and I decided, before I open up another Johnsons, maybe I ought to do one more show, because once you got two night clubs opened up, it's gonna be pretty much impossible tryin' to do a body builder show. So I figure I get one more under my belt. This'll be my twelfth show. I went down and got one spray coat yesterday, but they seem to think everyone's got the same size dick, cause they give you and infant sock. And I'm sorry, the infant sock's either gonna be fitting the top of my dick, or the bottom of my dick. I'm putting a sock on my dick so I can get tanned by this nice woman. (talking over each other) I'm a pro at this, I can make everything fit. When you've been on juice as long as I have, you're balls will fit anywhere. - Separate your legs nice and wide, both feet pointed to the front. - When you get on stage, there's so many stage lights, you can't be white, it'll wash you out, so no matter how tan you are, I mean even black guys, Latinos, Have to get color on them. In the regular light we look black, you get on lights and you'll see it washes you out. Start with the normal color, one coat last night, you wake up this morning, you rinse off, a lot of it stays attached to your body. Then you come out here and they do two more coats on you in the morning time, roll it out, make sure it's set. Then when you're backstage, they put oil on your body to make sure the contures and everything looks great, So on the stage (mumbles) Chris, come see my sock. Come see my pretty sock. - [Chris] I'm not fallin' for that again. - No come here, Chris come here. - [Chris] No. - Chris, come here, Chris. Come here, please? (muffled speaking) - Go where? - [Chris] I gotta go to the club. - Why? (Chris mumbling) (mumbling) - [Chris] We'll talk tomorrow. - No, no no no no, no you can't do that. (thumping music) We know I already won one class, so I can do national. Not that I would do nationals, but I'm just saying it's possible. So I did my competition yesterday, I got a first, a second, a third, I'm happy, there's no greater feeling than winning something I won with this bar, I've got amazing staff, amazing dancers, I'm gonna do the same thing with my body building. I went in there to win and I did. I don't wanna be average. I was a fat kid, I got beat up in high school and picked on in junior high and stuff. I don't wanna be that guy. I didn't get anything put in my lap. And it took me five months to get my business license for this. They fought back, they didn't want it here. I've had undercover in my bar. I've had Broward County sheriffs, I've had under cover Wilton Manors. I've had everyone, you know? And as long as you run a clean establishment I want my boys to go home and respect themselves at night. I don't want them to know they went in there and had to sell their dick for a dollar to make a buck to pay a bill. I run great dancers, they're respectful, they're nice. My clientele's nice, the music's nice. The club's clean. I wanna keep my life that way. So I can expand and do bigger and better things. Help people along the way. I wanna change lives. And this is the only thing I've ever done in my life, so this is the only way I know how to do it. - For Matt to finally be able to execute this, I think he pinches himself on a daily basis. He's always been like I'm gonna have my own bar someday, and when I have my own bar, I'm gonna do things right. I'm gonna make money of course, because that's what you wanna do, but I'm gonna treat my staff right, I'm gonna treat my dancers right, because he knows this would be nothing without our boys. - Dancing is a gift, male stripping actually gives an incredible confidence. - It's all about learning, new experiences. - I think that I've learned a lot about human behavior. - Stripping's a journey of self discovery. You know, maybe that's why they call it stripping. Maybe it's not even cause of the clothes. Maybe you're stripping yourself layer by layer. (laughing) - Stripping is not a job that's gonna last forever. You're gonna get old, everybody is going to the same direction. Right now the key is just to save money. Save money and maybe open up a business. That's what I'm tryin' to do. - I like what I do, I like knowing that I'm a boss that takes care of my staff. I'm a boss that takes care of my dancers. I'm a boss that watches over them. And there need to be more like me. So if I can open another club where I know I'm going to have another 60 or 75 boys that I can steer in the right direction, have them use this as just a little stop in their life, where they can make some money and follow their goals, follow what they wanna do, I'm all for it. I get to do something I enjoy to do, I get to help others out, I get to give back to the community in full. What could be better than that? I had a dream and I chased it, I went after it, and even after my dad, even after everyone said you need to start focusing on stuff you need to start doing this. I didn't give up on it. My dad came around, he ended up getting a divorce. It was my stepmom that said I couldn't be part of the family anymore. He loves my partner, we go and visit. He sends Chris, my partner, a Christmas present, a birthday present. If you want it bad enough, and you work hard enough you will get your dreams. It's my baby, this is Johnsons. (energetic triumphant music)