Transcript for Nadigan (1990) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- 'Sathyaraj' 'Actor' 'Kushboo' 'Manorama' 'Goundamani' Come Come Take your seat Thank you Congratulation Come up Please What Vishwanath? I thought you are taking me to your daughter Viji Why have you brought me here? She is not here She is in the mandapam Let's go there What work do we have here? I'm going to give your share in my daughter's marriage This year our company's profit is 5 crores Your share is 2.5 corers Vishwanath, I didn't come to take my share I came to bless your daughter If I take my share also Who is there for me? My wife died due to illness Had one daughter... ...who died with her husband in a plane accident Even I have decided I have decided to be the sole proprietor What did you say? What? For my daughter's marriage... ...Chief justice, police officer, big politicians, richest persons have come It shows the reputation of my business in the society 4 sons, 3 daughters, 10 grand children This shows what a responsible person I'm in my family If you have something like this, then it's okay The only fame you have is, that you are my partner Why all this for you? Just leave I have killed Raghu inside I am going down You see from up When the groom ties the knot and takes my blessing You switch on the tape recorder I have already recorded the gun shots We will make the people believe that Raghu committed suicide Okay sir What happened? Inspector, when I invited him he said he is able to remember his daughter In my daughter wedding he got his daughter's remembrance Even though we have money, we can't buy love So, Raghu did so If I knew this was going to happen I won't have not invited you at all Why did you do so? Stay calm Please Apart from me there is no one else for him Take him away Please Come sir If you itself cry, how? Stay calm sir How can I not cry? Hello, Inspector Rajasekar speaking Send an ambulance immediately Take down the address I feel sorry that this incident took place on your daughter's wedding I am sorry I will leave Even if God say's that you have killed him the cops won't believe That's Vishwanath The workers have come to collect their wages Rental car 5000 Food and beverage 5000 Photographer 7500 Serial set 2500 Ice cream 15000 Video? Where is the videographer? The videographer has taken the conversation... ...which took place between you and the manager He ran away after seeing me I don't know what you were talking When the groom ties the knot and takes my blessing You switch on the tape recorder I've already recorded the gun shots We will make the people believe that Raghu committed suicide I thought there was no evidence for this murder One fellow ran away with the evidence Lift Common Go fast Where do you want to go? Go anywhere Oh, you are like me What? There is an aunty in my house She is 50 years old who is yet to be married She doesn't like if me and my sister keeping flowers in our heads She doesn't like us wearing modern clothes She doesn't like us wearing bindi She doesn't like us wearing shoes Not only that This car you know She doesn't like us driving also Go fast We should always wear saree and cover our body We should not expose our glamour Once we come home from college, we should not go out Today she is not there in the house She has gone out Tomorrow only she will come So, I took the car and came I am going for a movie Free bird Enjoy Go fast Stop Stop here Stop man Where are you going? Stop Hey, is it you Yes, it's me I dropped you somewhere How come you are here? Listen, I want to tell you an important thing Don't torture I'm watching the movie interestingly Did you know what happened now? Why are you disturbing? Have this pop corn You have to do an important job... I thought I escaped from my aunty But... Sir...sir Murder sir In movie or theater In your theater Theatre huh? Come sir Over there I saw now The dead body was near my seat - But now it's missing - Shut up I swear sir Look here You were watching a thriller You should not have come alone I think you have involved yourself in this movie In fear you are blabbering all these things Listening to your words, I can't stop the screening Please get out Your theater Your movie Your dead body What is there for me? Sir, cassette is missing What? He has hidden the cassette somewhere The girl sitting near his seat, only gave him a lift When we took his body, she was not in her seat The girl will have the cassette From 80 crore population, how will you find her? "If the right time has arrived and life has started looking up for a man" "His tantrums are unbearable" "If he acquires a house and a great life" "The tortures he puts us through is unbearable" "He dances around for the sake of a job" "In order to overcome his tiredness he sings such songs everyday" "Bring the drums and the trumpets to play music..." "If the right time has arrived and life has started looking up for a man" "His tantrums are unbearable" "If he acquires a house and a great life" "The tortures he puts us through is unbearable" "When there is no food" "Our people carry themselves with decorum" "If it comes for free" "It will encourage them to pick quarrels" "When the pocket is empty" "Our boys are very humble" "If there is money in his bag" "He grows horns on his head" "If you become a wealthy man with surplus wealth" "You should lead a life with no ego" "He should remember the days when he was wailing with no food" "And keep these memories close to his heart" "As you go up higher and higher in life Your humility should also increase" "As soon as your popularity increases" "Don't change your path" "If the right time has arrived and life has started looking up for a man" "His tantrums are unbearable" "If he acquires a house and a great life" "The tortures he puts us through is unbearable" "In the wedding hall" "The girl whom our cousin loves is present" "The groom is all eyes..." "...For the bride whom he will be tied to for life" "He has decided to have Five or six children" "As our government insists Two kids are enough for us" "We have to try our level best to stop on time" "Otherwise imagine the condition of our house" "God heavens the poor have seven to eight children" "How do we manage to feed them?" "If we just have one or two kids We can always live in comfort" "What is the point to advising anyone? The country has gone to dogs" "If the right time has arrived and life has started looking up for a man" "His tantrums are unbearable" "If he acquires a house and a great life" "The tortures he puts us through is unbearable" "We are dancing around every day in search of a job" "We are singing every day to forget our tiredness" "Bring the drums and the trumpet..." Mother How are you now? There is no problem this month Since its festive month, I've so many concerts Now also I completed 1 concert and came Don't concentrate on songs alone Search for a job As if I am not searching? I am not getting any Your mother's blood test, ecg, x ray all results have come We have to do a bypass surgery Look here Raja Your mother can survive without this operation But it will not last for many days God has not given us enough money But blessed us with rich person disease According to her body condition, it's not safe to keep her here Take her to some hill station I don't know any other places than this Don't worry I'll give a letter to my friend who stays in Kodaikanal They will take care of your mother for a month without any fee Within that you find a job and pay the fee Thank you doctor Thank you very much Raja, to have to get me admitted You need a lot of money From where you will get it? We are going to a new place Where will we stay there? Where are you going to search for a job? A person who created me will look after me It's just water Came out by mistake I am sorry I didn't mean you But God Bro, I was listening to your conversation I am also going to the same place At the age of 55, 3000 rupees salary I'm going as a music teacher to his-land family Where is this his-land estate sir? Who knows? I was working as a music teacher in a college You are a music teacher? You can't believe is it? Even people can't believe it In the beginning I was a bathroom singer A crack in the door, than I joined the music troop They just gave me cool drinks Then I went to Karnatic There I got coconut shells alone I did not have any option left So, I entered a college For 40 years I shouted Only now I retired Why are you coughing and disturbing our conversation? Sir, she is my mother Your mother huh? That is why she is coughing beautifully You continue coughing I got a long letter from the his-land estate owner In that my duties, my salary, my stay place was mentioned clearly I'm trusting that letter only and going Go to sleep Not me, but you You see I mixed Hindustani and Karnatic and found a new music Idiot He only doesn't like it, he is jealous Even you Grand father Come Are you fine? Yes By seeing my letter Your father would have thought that I would stay free of cost That is why he didn't come to the station Tell your father that I'm going to stay for only a day After that, I'll be getting a separate cottage in his-land estate Do you know what cottage means? I do not know Cot means bed and age means old So cottage means old bed You are murdering the language Listen to me carefully At the age of 55 your grandfather is offered a salary of 3000 rupees... ...as a music teacher in his-land estate Go tell your father He will feel jealous My friend has mentioned everything in detail You need not worry Try to pay the fee before you leave Okay sir Oh my god! This is not my suitcase Suitcases has got exchanged I have lost all my possessions Why is the pant so long? Does he have only legs from below his neck? Devaraj 55 years old Music teacher 3000 rupees salary Island estate Island estate huh? That man pronounced it as his-land estate Oh, wrong pronunciation If he keeps saying his-land estate, how will he find the place? I don't know his address How will I return his things? Mom! Nurse, give the oxygen fast The operation should be done as early as possible I have explained the situation Music master When you poured water from the top I knew you were my god No problem Music is known to me Sir, Forgive me In order to save my mother I am going to disguise as you By mistake you took my suitcase At least you could have kept clothes for my size Why is it so lengthy? Is this a hand or an elephant's trunk? Mike testing At the age of 55, 3000 rupees salary Where is that his-land estate? Why are you looking at me like that? For this only they say, you should not show off You lost your suitcase Now how will you find the address? Go man If I say his-land estate, even a small boy will guide me I was born and brought up in the same town I've never heard of such a place for the past 10 years Get lost idiot Good, he didn't tailor a pant in the same material "Dance or music or is it just a disguise It has begun, check out" "Get into groups and larger groups And enjoy dham,dham, dham" "I look like a child And I will sing a lot of songs" "I have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" "I have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" "Dance or music or is it just a disguise It has begun, check out" "Get into groups and larger groups And enjoy dham, dham, dham" "I wanted to and searched for a teacher's job" "I may get caught tomorrow who knows" "What to do it is all God's manoeuvres" "I've had only good thoughts and may wear the garland of success" "My legs may wobble while walking" "Young girls will give me a hand" "This city will give me respect" "This old man's getup will fetch me fame" "It is not considered wrong when I touch anyone" "Have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" "Have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" "This earth always believes lies as truth" "Show me a man who speaks the truth" "Money is the cause for mistakes but who makes mistakes" "Are believed to be good by people" "The hunter caught a glance of Valli the deer like gypsy" "And came chasing her once in the form of Velan" "He couldn't have disguised himself better" "I've also got a similar opportunity and see no mistake in it" "It is not considered wrong when I touch anyone" "Have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" "Have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" "Dance or music or is it just a disguise It has begun, check out" "Get into groups and larger groups And enjoy dham, dham, dham" "I look like a child And I will sing a lot of songs" "Have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" "Have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" These people are very well off Old lady has arrived Aunty came Go fast Jinni has come Who are you? Why are you lying in my house? Your children only banged on me What? Letter L o t u s Only this lady runs this place Mr Devaraj Yes mam My name is Anadhakarpagavalli They are my brother's kids Eldest is Geetha Youngest is Radha She is Dippa and he is Prashanth My brother and sister in law are no more I am everything for them In this house, you are not only a music teacher Once I go to the estate, you have to take care of them That is why I'm paying 3000 rupees I wanted a responsible and an elderly person That is why, I wrote to your headmaster This is a much disciplined house Everyone are well behaved I will not accept even a small mistake Stop it Why are you laughing? No mam You said this is a well behaved house, you are strict person Thinking of that I laughed When you are not at home They run around under dressed As soon as they saw you They covered themselves Old man got us into trouble Don't worry madam You have given me the responsibility I will take care of them Pandu Yes mam Master, will stay in our outhouse Make arrangements Old man, you got us into trouble Very soon, we will chase you There is Tea and black coffee What you want? I don't want all these I want one help I mean a favor 55 years old, 3000 rupees salary Where is this his-land estate? Tell me What so early in the morning without buying you are spoiling my business Go man What? I will kill you Oh my god That is also my name Greetings It seems like you are angry Yes aunty You are going to college for studying What is the flower on your ear? Is your ear a flower pot? Go Style Stop Aunty Are you going to study or to scratch everyone? Go Stop Where is the bindhi? I asked you to keep bindhi Pandu Yes mam Master Yes madam Drop them in their college Cover Cover it For you it's difficult, anyway close it Follow me girls Very good I have a got good master We will cheat old people like you easily, understand? You wanted me to cover myself In a way I'm happy that you are coming like this I am gifted What? Listen, your aunty doesn't have brain at all Is it good to keep you all in a restricted way? Should be left free Is it possible for you to remove more than this? What did you say? Sister, no Old man is a rogue He is trying to make use of us Don't expose yourself That's all I am warning you How long I was waiting for you? Since both were looking alike, I got confused Sir, that girl is having the cassette I will... Leave it We came to know about her college When she comes alone, we will take care If we go now, we will get into trouble Come on, get inside Hold this Hold this also Why this make up? Just to irritate my aunty Why is your purse heavy? Is it heavy? What are you blabbering? Hey, you have a cassette Cassette Show me Who knows? Get lost I will only watch and return Who stopped you? Master, aunty has left to the estate Then the tuition is over Thank you It is him Before aunty returns, We have to chase him away I will catch Follow me Sorry You follow me Follow me Hey old man How are you feeling? I'll remove your parts and beat you up Heard you support my aunt You will be finished If you want to shave, go and do it there There only there is a lot of hair That's right Who are you? Very sorry to say, I'm her future husband What do you know about music? Can you compete with us in dancing and singing? Come girls, we will see "Master music master Will drive around in suits and coat" "Shall we learn sariga ma Shall we learn the content?" "Your beard has turned grey and boy has shriveled" "Your pulse has gone down let's see who wins" "Let us see what nonsense you are up to" "Shall we listen to your music with eight counts?" "Make a brave entry with courageous" "This grandfather is ready to compete to this girls" "Your beard has turned grey and boy has shrivelled" "Your pulse has gone down let's see who wins" "Bravery and music is my grandpa's property" "You will learn to be shy if you walk around my house" "Enough or your looks let's hear your song" "When are you to become a scholar?" "The Ragas Bairavi, Ranjani, Senjuritti" "Will stand in front of me with crossed hands" "Keep it all in a bundle" "All that you have is a cracked pot" "A rich girl given birth by a rich man" "You have not yet grown but are wagging your tail to me" "You do not know anything about my mastery in music" "How will a donkey appreciate the perfume of flower?" "Pony tail clad girl this is Kittappa singing" "You head will swell if you fight with me" "Don't squeal, I don't want any noise" "Don't jump around just fight against me" "Fight with bravery and exhibit your bravery" "Don't lie on your stomach and fight with me" "When the nose and nose ring clash I will feel romantic as per my song" "Your songs are like cow feed We will run after sealing your lips" "Are hens which lay eggs Waging a war with me" "Haven't you been burnt enough? Have you no common sense" "What happened to PUC a BSc?" "Maybe you stopped after not being able to master ABC at all" "A caterpillar will not run like a train Mosquitos cannot sing like a koel" "Pony tail clad girl this is Kittappa singing" "You head will swell if you fight with me" "Don't squeal, I don't want any noise" "Don't jump around just fight against me" "Fight with bravery and exhibit your bravery" "Don't lie on your stomach and fight with me" "Pony tail clad girl this is Kittappa singing" "You head will swell if you fight with me" Thank you aunty Bullshit Aunty...Aunty Aunty, this guy came to our college He said whoever is interested in singing come home and learn We told him that aunty will get angry For that, he asked us to ignore you Oh god! He said so Old man, you corned us Now you are trapped I thought you were a gentleman I never expected that you will behave so cheaply No more work in this house for you Get out I am not ready to listen to you Get out What is this? Dress Remove all these and drape a saree Go Get lost Look at their dress and their walk See you Bye I wanted your aunty to feel sorry for me That is why I supported her But that became a problem for you Whatever I am leaving happily I will leave Sad scene Getting goose bumps all over Aunty Both our sisters joined and lied to you Only they provoked the master to dance and sing Poor master He is leaving without repeating their lie to you Master is a good person Mr.Devaraj, come here So it's all your work Master, you need not go anywhere - Aunty - Shut up You can stay here The more and more they hate you Your salary will increase Okay Sad scene Goose bumps all over Sisters Your aunty is not a devil She is loyal and a straight forward person A beautiful and pious lady If only she was married at the right time She would not have been like this You think that as hatred She is asking you to drape saree, you don't like that Do you know why? If you wear saree and stand in front of her You will look ugly At this age itself you are like this At her age... Enough Enough old man This is sufficient You said about aunty Master, we will definitely convey this to her Hey I won't leave you Even if you jump over the wall or gate I will surely catch you I am not a fool to let you lose Common repeat Hey, I will definitely arrest you Oh, drama rehearsal You people are talking dialogues which suit me No hurry Police! - Good morning - Good morning Whom are you going in search off? A prisoner Prisoner huh? What is his name? Korangu Kannairum What did he do? He donated 10,000 rupees to our police station That is not the subject He is a different sort of robber He used to send monkeys to the bungalows to steal He sells those items and survives He is awesome People use monkeys only to do tricks But this guy is using it for stealing But how much he must have gone through to teach the monkeys Because he was a clever fellow he cheated us How does he look? He will be dark as a no moon day Where you born on a full moon day? Look at your face, it's like an old drum Talk about him but not about his face If we go back without catching him, inspector will tear us into pieces - One idea - What? If we all go together, we can't find him Let's go separately You go this way - Even me - Yes - You go that side - You? I will go this way Even after a year You cannot get hold of him Aunty is coming Tell - You tell - You tell first What? Aunty, master is not a good as you think You need not talk about him If he had spoken about us, we would have kept quite We aren't able to hide what he spoke about you About me What did he say? At this age also you look sexy it seems Even the youngsters get a kick when they look at you Your front, your back, this and that Enough Don't speak more than this - Pandu - Madam Ask that master to come to my room Did you call for me? Why? To fix our marriage What did you tell the children about me? They were thinking of you as a devil and monster I told them that you are good person Is that wrong? After their parents expired, if you had left them alone What would have happened to them? They would have been orphans I tried to explain this to them Is that wrong? They who should have been orphans, You with your right as their aunt... Showed your love with authority That is what I said Is that wrong? Guys would have lined up to marry you But you avoided all the offers for their sake They didn't understand your sacrifice So I made them understand Is that wrong? He has cooled her He has chilled her to the toes I don't know how you would have been in your early days But even at this age you look awesome It's true Please don't mistake I cannot stay away from admiring about your beauty You are looking very young Very sweet And very beautiful If you think, I was wrong Just say Devaraj Go out from here I will leave Mr.Devaraj Instead of competing with him Its better to go by his side I don't know what to say You just mesmerized me Its all right Bring your wife and children along for lunch I want to give your family a treat I am unmarried Is it true? You are not married Why? I have sevvai dosham Father, come let's play You keep jumping around I'm waiting for a groom with sevvai dosham What are you thinking? I always think about you What? I searched all over but I could not find anyone with sevvai dosham Hereafter, if you wish to praise me, or if you wish to describe about my beauty You tell me directly Don't tell anyone else Even I wanted to tell you a fact I noticed that when you came here What madam? Only your mustache and beard have grayed Otherwise you are young What is this? The hair on his head is white but otherwise it is black all over He is different looking old man The 3000 rupees they pay is just sufficient to stick and remove my beard He has disguised as an old man Why? If I get caught it's for a year If he gets caught it's for 5 years Brother, you are caught Come It's you Please forgive us We spoke badly about you to our aunty Please Why saying please and all? You both are like my children Who am I to forgive you? Who am I to forgive you? Enough of forgiving us Yeah okay You both belong to rich family, so you are broad minded Police When did you enter? When you disguised from an old to young man Once again you disguised as an old man, Then went and fooled those girls Then again changed to a young man - I noticed everything - Arrest me sir Don't worry You came through the door I came through the window This is also a disguise Take your glasses I am not a cop Get out - Come let's go together - Why? You are also a thief like me I am not a thief Then are you blind? To save my mother's life, I'm acting Are robbers so cheap? Even we have honor, respect and prestige We don't steal for fun, but poverty You have disguised to save your mother Because of that they will not put you in a silver prison Both of us same prison, same plate and same food Listen Let's have a deal Police is searching for me The only place I can hide is here If you want me to save you, than you got to save me I will stay here only Master My name is Raj Hey raj, how are you? I came in search of you Somebody is following me, I am scared - Please save me - Who is following you? I don't know - Why are they following you? - Don't know - Where are they? - Inside the library You walk ahead Who are they? Show me their house Who knows? I've no knowledge about his doings I found out You are very attractive so they chased you Okay, sit I will drop you Sit Do you know master Devaraj? Just move He will resemble you He is just like you But he is an old man Thank you for saving me Thank you, bye That girl would have not seen the cassette If she had, then we would have got caught Search for her house immediately Only I'm going to teach you today Aunty, we finished studying Keep quite Aunty, you won't understand our syllabus Shut up Coming, you are coming The distance we travel is not long You are coming Coming, you are coming You are not concentrating Are you in love? Yes sir How did you find it? You study on your own As if I don't know At my age how many people I would have loved Whom are you in love with? I told you already, that library hero Chase, fight Geetha, if a person fights well, Do you have to fall in love? You don't know who chased you You don't know who saved you What if they have planned together to cheat you? Shut up Don't speak badly about him Got it You said you don't know about the guy who saved me in the library How come now? You said, he resembles me So I thought, he might be my brother's son My brother and I fought and got separated Then I heard my brother had a son who resembled me He might be him Yes sir There is no difference at all You have beard, but he doesn't have First find out if he is good or bad And then fall in love How? What is this? - Chicken - Take 4 pieces and keep aside - What is that round object? - Egg Keep everything here What is this? - Kidney - Whose? Frog Frog has such a big kidney huh Keep that separately, I want to taste it What is that white thing? Have you never seen rice in your life? You eat that What is that green and yellow stuff? Shut up and eat Tell me Nothing will happen to you if you explain You are trying to act smart wearing my dress and glasses What glasses? You would have bought it for 25 paise What dress? Was it measured and tailored I am a matured man I am going I am not living a false life like you Whatever I need, old lady will give me - Grandmother - Brother - What sister? - Sister huh? In our place sister means brother - Allow me to eat - Okay have it - Why is biriyani sour? - Its tamarind rice You placed the egg in tamarind rice and fooled me Again you are fooling me Where is woolen? Tomorrow I will buy you woolen sweaters What Sweaters? I am talking about flying woolen Its not woolen, its quail Whatever it is? I want that If I have that only, I can sleep Listen, I disguised to save my mother's life But you are creating unnecessary problems Okay leave it I am a matured person I will go now I will ask granny, she will arrange it for me Granny Okay I will go and get it You wait till I come back, don't eat What? I should not eat huh? No, woolen tomorrow Today biriyani Keep it - Hi Raj - Hi - I am so lucky - Why? I was wondering how to search and find you But I never thought I'll find you so easily Why were you searching me? That is... That is... I love you I don't love you If a girl proposes does a man have to agree? Even we have respect Even we will refuse Like how you proposed to me How many more men you would have told? I swear I've not proposed any one earlier I am not that sort of girl Only the old music master taught me all this Brainless fellow We should not talk ill of our teachers How will you not get angry? He is your uncle What is his name? Devaraj Correct My father has told me That I resemble my uncle a lot Okay Why should we discuss about him? I love you Are you in love with me? I have never disagreed with my uncle I too love you I've got a job in the police department We got to be separated for 6 months - 6 months huh? - Why? How will I survive without you? If we are together itself your aunt will separate us We will think of your aunt and stay away Your aunt frights me even in my sleep When you are scared of my aunt itself How can you find the robber? I can catch the thief but not your aunt She is a devil in disguise Mummy come and give me a kiss I am scared Murder How dare you both make love at home? When you have an elder sister What is the hurry for you? You are loving a useless fellow He has got a job He is going for training Bloody fool How dare you raise your voice? Why did you beat her? For what reason you beat her Is falling in love a crime? If not now when will they fall in love? Only when you are angry Your age is shown You are the first person to control me Hey false beard Why are you packing your clothes? I have decided to quit my job What? You are leaving your job huh? Why? You know everything We can't get along If both of you can't get along You will leave alone, is it? Who are you? I am Tata and you are Birla Get lost I am an idiot You are a fool What is the relation between us? Are you related to me? Shameless fellow Did you make a saffron paste for my girls? Did you ask all this? Do you know this dialogue? Did you go to Germany and see this movie by yourself? You would have seen the matinee show I would have seen the evening show Why are you making a mountain out of a mole hole? Only if I get rid of you I will have peace In these days Such a big house, a car to travel Servants at your dispose See there Beautiful red flowers Green lands Open windows If we go out can we get them? Leave me I always have food awaiting me I am a government servant All are get ready for me If you go out This round 50 paise It will take weeks for you to see it You will suffer Stay here for some more days Okay There you are My wish, I am going out Yesterday only you mentioned your mother You have forgotten so soon Leave me You are leaving your mother who gave birth... ...to you all alone in the hospital and going Who will save her? Don't act smart I know how to look after my mother What you are not getting upset even by your mother? We will use your sister But you haven't got one Okay - Give me 1000 rupees - Why? I will go to my native I will not disturb you For him not pointing out to me for so many days I can give him 1000 rupees Here From tomorrow you should not come here I swear I will not come in front of you I won't come to this town anymore - Sir - What? Telugu Oh my god! One minute I am 55 years old 3000 rupees salary Where is this his-land estate? My Tamil is far better than the Telugu you speak So you know Tamil I will kill you Since last night I've been searching down the streets For my wife and the man next door who has gone missing Why are you torturing me? Why is he calling out Amulu and following a horse? In which ward is patient Vasanthi Who met with a car accident yesterday? In 305 madam Your X-ray and ECG are all normal You are getting very worked up very frequently That's why your body is very weak The cassette girl Follow her and Locate her house Help me What happened? Those men who chased me from the library the other day Are chasing me again Are you sure that they are the same people Or are you hallucinating No, I am sure it is them They have come Gurkhaji, good morning I am 55 years old Look My salary is 3000 rupees Where is Island Estate here? I do not know where it is I know where Nagaland is Coming My mother is at home Ever since I had my suitcase exchanged Even my fate seems to have changed No one is of any help in this city Daddy leave me alone Don't torture me I will stay there itself If I were to make the decision I will leave you there itself Come This is your room You should stay here from now This is amma's order What is all this? It is not good if you stay in one place And the children stay elsewhere That's why this arrangement Moreover you are not a single person anymore You are a member of this family Aunty what is happening in this house What is happening here? Why? What is your doubt? You have colored your hair black as per your desire All your full sleeve blouses have become 1/2 sleeved and dressing up colorfully The master who was staying in the outhouse Has been brought to stay in the house If I was the same person as before I would not have answered your questions Thank the stars, that I've become soft natured now I'm not that old that I should not dye my hair I'm young enough to have black hair I brought master home for your own welfare We should not wear flower on our hair Nor wear modern dresses but you... From today discard these sarees and throw them aside You need to wear modern clothes This is for you and this is for you "Heavenly jasmine flower Island soaked in honey" "The breeze that dances on the flower The beautiful chaste tamil song" "Are you an art of love or A dream in my lovelorn eyes" "Is this a magical addiction Or an art of enticing me" "Dear darling deer my lovely honey Come through my eyes" "The breeze that dances on the flower The beautiful chaste tamil song" "Heavenly jasmine flower Island soaked in honey" "I can see the gentle breeze and the lightning in either sides of you" "I can see Monday and the sun In front of my eyes" "When I hug you and you move in my hands I feel great joy spilling over" "I feel both fear and shyness rise within me" "You rainbow who came clad in clothes" "Come to me garlanded with love" "There is the stage for love here" "We have come to witness the scene of love" "From now you and I day after day" "Dear darling deer my lovely honey Come through my eyes" "The breeze that dances on the flower The beautiful chaste tamil song" "Heavenly jasmine flower Island soaked in honey" "Are you an art of love or A dream in my lovelorn eyes" "Is this a magical addiction Or an art of enticing me" "Dear darling deer my lovely honey Come through my eyes" "Heavenly jasmine flower Island soaked in honey" "The breeze that dances on the flower The beautiful chaste tamil song" "The swan will ask you to teach how to give in abundance" "It is an art of dusk which will come as per desire" "The hips with fear will ask you to reach and hold close" "The sweet parrot will chirp that were ever held it will give joy" "You are binding us close with passion" "You are kindling the fire of love" "You are taunting me with your perfume" "You are tuning the desire of manhood" "I am the rose adorned by my king" "Dear darling deer my lovely honey Come through my eyes" "Heavenly jasmine flower Island soaked in honey" "The breeze that dances on the flower The beautiful chaste tamil song" "Are you an art of love or A dream in my lovelorn eyes" "Is this a magical addiction Or an art of enticing me" "Dear darling deer my lovely honey Come through my eyes" "The breeze that dances on the flower The beautiful chaste tamil song" "Heavenly jasmine flower Island soaked in honey" - Who is this? - It is me Pandu - What do you want? - Open the door I'll tell you My stomach burns every time I look at you Why are you torturing me? You were roaming like a vagabond with nothing like me And now you are living in style Can you imagine how I burn within looking at you? Am I the teacher for the students or that lady? Why are you torturing me? These are questions you should ask that lady What do you want now? Your cousin has come in search of you My father had no elder brother so how can I have a cousin He is talking to Amma outside She asked me to bring you Oh is it you loafer Come Raju, are you alright? Why are you looking at me like that? I am talking to you Raju Are you fine? Why are you looking at me like that? I'm your father's elder brother's Kandasamy's son Your big brother I went to the hospital Amma said that you were here So I thought I could see you and leave I'm the one who taught him to play on the harmonica He used to trouble me a lot Why? If you ask him to play one stroke he will play the other I have taught him under water On top of the hill On the railway track Sometimes I would also sit on top of a tree with him and teach him I am the guru for his music Is it so? What is wrong with it? When people who have watched me play have become music directors I have learnt music the formal way Don't I deserve to become a guru? Definitely I am the main person in music He is only my back up Go and stand there One minute I want to speak alone You can go to that corner and speak alone There is no one there No brother with you With me why with me Yes Come Madam if you hear me shout ayyo amma - Please come running - Why? Since we were separated for a long time as I was in London He may whack me for having kept away Very fond of you I presume Yes ma'am Why is your hair all gray? Only you know how to color your hair is it Don't I know how to do it? I put my head into a pot of lime And it all turned white You promised to take 1000 rupees and leave the city Why did you come back here? I took 1000 rupees not to leave this city But to buy these clothes Where do I have a city, a house? I am a care of platform For the sake of buying food I used to rob pots and pans from here and there The police men did not like it They used to nab me very often and keep me inside So I thought why not get clothes like these and come like a gentleman Atleast I will get some respect Anyway who is this? She is so attractive even at this age Will you leave this place and go or not Why are you putting up your price so much? As if I am going to stay in your house Then do what you want I will stay in their house What did you speak? Nothing much He just said that he himself was sponging on you He asked me to stay somewhere outside - Yes - No...no You said that you were master's brother You should only stay here Look, she herself has agreed Don't want it is a lot of trouble Master you are insulting me Your brother must stay here Is this boy your brother? Does he look like my brother? He is looking like your younger brother You should not go anywhere else You should definitely stay here Welcome IG sir Please sit down What is the matter? MrViswanath, I want to see your daughter's wedding cassette Is it so? I'll ask them to bring it I have not seen it myself Sir wants to see our Viji's wedding cassette bring it We have not yet received the cassette Not yet come What are you people doing? Who is he? Why has he not yet handed over the cassette? We have been to that video shop a couple of times It was locked we are not able to catch that person Can't you catch that person? What are you saying? His parents are saying that your daughter's wedding was one he attended That's why I want to see the cassette What is this sir? What are you saying? Though Videographer's parents are suspecting you We cannot take action without knowing the truth We will find him somehow In the meantime if you get any information inform us We will come - Bye sir - Okay sir One of our men should work in that girl's house immediately He should find that cassette and bring it over without their knowledge What if we kidnap her? Instead of making more and more mistakes and getting caught We should see how we can get away smartly We have already committed 2 murders We need not commit another murder Amma, you have received a phone call Inspector? Very good Congratulations Please come over immediately Very danger What is it? Tell me what it is I am having palpitations Do you need a hammer or a cutting player? Why? You take what you want and I'll take what I want and hurt myself Why tell me? That lady is a dangerous person I was wondering why she was giving us space to live in her house so freely It is only to get us into trouble What are you saying? She has asked the inspector to come over Let him come Don't start fooling with me You know very well that I am a fraud who has escaped from prison Why are you getting scared? Anyway your ugly face has been changed What ugly face? Just add some more powder to your already handsome face and look good The inspector will not know Okay, we will see If I go to Madras, you will go to Vellore I've never seen them No I am Kannasamy No Kandasamy Do you know Devaraj who is Ayyasamy's brother in law I am their cousin's brother What are you blabbering? Nothing is right No it is right I have not stuck a beard in my head Not stuck a moustache into my nose Not dyed my ears All this was done by the grandmother with a crop and master only The police looks scary Don't try talking to him and get into trouble He is the man who is going to marry the younger daughter Before this crooked mouthed man becomes the groom We should swipe everything from this house and settle down Even if I am exposed I will not let you do it You are not enjoying and are not letting me enjoy It is like a pairing dog having gone to Chidambaram Joining with you itself is a mistake Aunty is it you Yes it is me Ever since master came to this house He has changed me and my nature Aunty I did not expect such a welcome from you Till Geetha finds a working groom I expect the 2 of you to be friends Aunty, thank you Don't thank me Thank the master He is the cause for all this "My legs may wobble while walking" "Young girls will give me a hand" "This city will give me respect" "This old man's getup will fetch me fame" "It is not considered wrong when I touch anyone" "Have changed into an actor" "I've powdered my face over and over and lost all shyness" If you ever wear makeup you should dress like father Very convenient Everybody is showering kisses on him The girl whom we suspect as having the cassette is Geetha She has 2 sisters and a brother Their aunt looks after them and that house There is an old music master in that house There is an advertisement for girls to help enhance the aunt's looks These two girls are going for that job You know everything don't you Yes sir You should bring the cassette without anyone's knowledge Okay sir All the best Come I have been waiting for you please come Why are all of you looking stunned? These girls have come to help me look beautiful Master I was talking about girls coming from the beauty parlor These are the girls Shall we go? Yes we shall Let me go Where are you going? She called me She called the two following her Did you hear the story? It seems these 2 have come from a beauty parlor They are 2 ghosts who have been living on a tree top She has brought them to life and brought them home Now they are going to create a ghost Finally, we are going to live in this house with three ghosts I wonder where this is going to end Again in gray hair I can't dye this any more I have to pour tar over my head Open Who is this rogue? His name is Madasamy He suspected his wife and cut - What? - His wife He is now in prison sir His name is Kodhandham His wife was living with a man So he knifed him His name is Sethu He already has 3 wives now he has married a 4th one All the stories about illegal wives and several wives Is there no story about a decent wife? We are searching but have not got one - What? - Wife? I can see you feel a lot Is this a police station or marriage register office? Please open the file He is monkey Kannayiram sir I have heard of Salem Vishnu and Malayur Mambutiyan Who is this monkey Kannayiram? He has a monkey which helps him rob in rich places and makes his living He was imprisoned But he escaped and has been undercover How many months since he escaped? Six months The department cannot catch a thief This is a shame to our department Shut up You can't catch a thief Why are you indulging in choral singing? Instead of him we have put the monkey behind bars Monkey? Constables release him I've seen this monkey Kannayiram somewhere But where...? Its me What? Please tell You should also dye your hair Ayyo, I don't need it What is it? Does that old lady want you to dye your hair too? Dye your hair Stick the beard and make love to the old woman Remove the beard and make love to the girl Lucky man you have moles all over your body Its you Let's us first kiss and then speak From now on I can only see you like this Why? I don't have a house nor a job If you just say that you don't have a job my aunt won't agree to our marriage If you don't have a house too how will she agree? I will handle your aunt Ayyo aunty Please hide Aunty has come what will I do? Not there What are you doing? Not there Hide She may come Hurry up What aunty? Did the master come? Master did not come here at all Where did he go? Why did you shout? I will buy you shoes I've searched for this master all over the house Where did he go? What is it? Why is the cot shaking like this? Nothing aunty Why is it elevated over there? No What no? No one is there aunty I felt something fell from here No It appears as if something is falling, isn't it? No aunty You seem to be feeling that way How can it happen just to me? Aunty you are not wearing your glasses are you? Yes That's why you can't see My eyesight is very good Even I know that there is nothing there I was simply looking all over Where did this master go? Thank God I escaped Who escaped you or me? I've been falling down and getting up I am totally damaged can you see I have to talk to you alone This is not the right place Come over Tonight at 9'o clock I'll be waiting for you in Park Lipton Hotel We have searched the house all over Where would she have left the cassette? Search thoroughly Quick Deepa, something is happening in this house Yes Prasad Eat Raja, I did not come to eat I've to talk about something important to you You should do what I tell you What should I do? Raja you should tell a lie for my sake Lie Please it is all for our wedding I don't like lying I don't know how to lie Tell aunty that you are working in some company that is enough Acting That is very easy You have to act like Thangavelu did in KalyanaParisu I'm already acting like Muthuraman did in Kadhalika Neramilai and am suffering What? A role like that in an exhibition I don't care what you do My aunty will agree only if you tell her you are working It's okay if she comes to know the truth later How will I talk to your aunty about our wedding? Don't worry about that There is an old man in our house It's none other than your father's brother He is in great demand now I can talk to my aunty through him It is enough if you come to see me So I should talk about myself It is going to be all knotted Singaravelan What happened? Have you told aunty about your man? I have told the master He has gone to talk to our aunty So if you have told master it will surely happen I've seen a good groom for Geetha You have found a groom Who is he? My brother's son His name is Raja He will look just like me What will he look just like you? Just the way I would look without a beard and black hair Like that Almost like the way I looked when I was young Where is he? What is he doing? In this town only He is an actor in TV drama modeling You don't have to doubt him As if he has a lot of self confidence He will not be extravagant He will come up through hard work It is okay with me as he is your brother's son You also say that he looks just like you I'd like to see him immediately Can you bring him tomorrow itself? I'll bring him tomorrow Success I have fixed my brother's son for you I wonder where this is going to end Kandasamy brother What? I just called you brother Okay, let it be Do you know who the groom is? Both of us know him Raja is after all our master's brother's son How can you not know? Brother's son only Let me see how they come together Whether they will come together, or linking hands Or with their hands apart So he has come alone Good day You... My name is Raja Master, uncle sent me here Is it so Yes aunty I am not your aunty But mum's sister Brother Kandasamy Yes sister What happened? Nothing just an ulcer in my mouth This guy is capable of marrying 3 people simultaneously Wicked fellow Who? Why did not uncle not come? Yeah, why did he not come? We left the house together We suddenly received a call that my mother is not well So he has gone there He has lied Even I said that we could keep this program on another day But my uncle was sentimental That's why I came I've seen twins look a like But only now am I seeing an uncle and his nephew look alike You are just like him What do you mean they are the same? He is muscular What sister? He is well built Naturally as he is eating for free Brother Kandasamy You don't know how he used to break rocks at home My uncle told me that you were staying with him Staying with him, that's okay Uncle my own uncle is working here so he is staying here But you are sponging on these people and binging on food Isn't it wrong? That's all respect for you Don't kindle me Move a little Chitti, when he was young he used to wear a Lang out and tend buffalos Langout Oh God! He used to always lie Yes He would have told you that he taught my uncle to play on the harmonica Yes I promise it's a lie He doesn't even know how many wooden pieces are there in the harmonica You can ask him What brother Kandasamy? Don't you know even that? Does a musician keeping counting all that while playing music How can you talk like this along with him? Did you come to see the girl or me? Sister call the girl Don't rag poor brother I know everything about him Pandu ask Geetha to come So you have not seen this girl before Yes Do you say yes? I have seen loafer, cheater, and thief all separately 'Only today have I seen all in one' How do you manage to look baby faced? Will you shut your mouth? Geetha, I feel that I'm looking at your mother Live happily Come Raja, she is my brother's daughter Geetha Do you like our Geetha? If he says he doesn't like her I will run away from this house I won't trouble you I like the girl I like you a lot You also like Geetha So I will talk to your uncle and fix an auspicious day for the wedding Bless me Live happily I'll take leave Brother I'll take leave Tell your uncle I enquired after him Okay - Brother Kandasamy - Sister The groom looks trustworthy He will never tell a lie You have got a good husband Come Raja What happened? I have to talk to you alone Come Raja, I've been confused about something for a long time I was wondering whom to confide in and how to confide all these days On seeing you I felt that you were the right person That's why I arrived before you and have been waiting for you Whatever I tell may shock you But give me a pleasant answer What is the matter? Both your uncle and I have sevvai dhosham Both of us are not married I've been bottling this matter in my heart for a long time Your uncle is also in the same predicament There is nothing like that I understand that you feel elderly people should not feel this way We do not want to get together at this age for any ulterior reason If you all get married and leave us your uncle will be alone I will also be alone So I have decided to marry him Marriage? You have to pass this information to your uncle And arrange for our marriage Your uncle tried hard to get you married Now you should help him out Me? Sir... Look at the level you have come to Madam Madam What old man? He is running fast may be it is indigestion At the age of 55 Rs.3000 salary Where is that? "Where is peace where is peace I searched but it is nowhere to be seen" "Where is peace where is peace I searched but it is nowhere to be seen" "All kinds of people came and said all kinds of things" "Whatever you say and whatever you do there is no peace" "There is no peace for man" "Where is peace where is peace I searched but it is nowhere to be seen" "Where is peace where is peace I searched but it is nowhere to be seen" "When I was studying in school There was no peace in studies" "If there was no school and were holidays There was no peace without money" "In order to earn money I wanted to pursue studies" "But there was no seat I college" "Finally when you acquire a seat and a degree" "There is no job hence no peace" "When you go out to forget your sorrow You look at a girl and lose your peace" "When I decide to think of the girl and go to sleep" "There is no peace in my dream" "For the heart which is tossing like waves" "Will there be any peace" "Where is peace where is peace I searched but it is nowhere to be seen" "Where is peace where is peace I searched but it is nowhere to be seen" "To avoid dog's life I pretended to be someone else" "I told whatever lie I could and earned a good name" "In the new place my youth started playing pranks as usual" "The girl with her enticing smile expressed her love to me" "The question frequently surfaced in my already broken heart" "Anyman in this position will have to become a saint" "Whether we live or die Will one see peace?" "Will man see peace?" "Where is peace where is peace I searched high and low" "But there is no peace" "Where is peace where is peace I searched high and low" "But there is no peace" "All kinds of people came and said all kinds of things" "Whatever you say and whatever you do there is no peace" "There is no peace for man" "Where is peace where is peace I searched high and low" "But there is no peace" "Where is peace where is peace I searched high and low" "But there is no peace" What is it? A video cassette sir If you insert it in the TV and see in the deck Sorry if you put it in the deck and see in the TV you will see the deck Sorry you will see the TV Sorry you will see the picture sir Don't we know that? We don't know Pallandu, I will kill you Child, what is in it? Sir, my friend Geetha gave it to me There is a murder recorded This one But how Cousin get up Mother I have an important job I will get back You come once in a while why are you leaving so soon Isn't master here? He just left Are you master's mother? Yes At eighty five she looks pretty All of you look young in your family Your son looks young at this age You also look young You... I haven't introduced myself Your son works as master in our house I'm happy having met you My son has told me a lot about you He always talked proudly about the respect and honor he gets in your house Oh God! The old lady should not talk about love and marriage Just the way he got a good job with you If he gets a good bride too I will die in peace Don't talk like that His wedding will surely happen only with your blessing aunty Aunty Bless me aunty Aunty, I will take leave Very good Well done Wonderful acting What a great actor? Geetha, listen to me No, you don't have to tell anything Thank God! Before your drama was through I came to know the truth I escaped Don't take any decision in a hurry I am not prepared to listen to anyone Let me go Leave me My mother has her operation tomorrow I was wanting reveal the truth after that Love is an entertainment and wedding is a game for you Leave me Don't take a decision in a hurry I hate you I have already told you everything before Leave me Radha where is your sister Geetha What is the matter? Your sister Geetha gave this cassette to Maya, isn't it? Yes - Do you know what is in this cassette? - I don't know Do you know what is in this cassette? I don't know One murder Catch them they have run away Stop Give the cassette and run Catch them There are scenes of a murder in that cassette I don't interfere in murder cases Minister's dog has gone a missing I've to find it immediately it is an alsatian Now I understand why there is so much of danger around you How did you get that cassette? Some man got into my car He was killed by four people I think he dropped this cassette in my car We should be careful from now Let this cassette be with me Come I've paid the money required for my mother's operation Why are you dressed like this? I can't afford this operation only because of this get up When my mother comes alive I will disclose my get up to Mrs Anandha Karpagavalli I am going to tell her who I am Respected teacher If you do not want this predicament for the people... ...who live in this house Which is the witness to the murder I've committed... ...come with the cassette to Suicide Point Aunty my leg is aching Paining aunty Paining aunty Aunty paining Don't cry Prasad Hand over the cassette to me Or else they will freeze in a short while Master it is paining help You are an old man Why this trouble at old age? Give the cassette to me Forgive me Mr Viswanath there is police surrounding you If you try to escape we will shoot you Mr Devaraj hand over the cassette to me All of you stand as you are and don't move Sir there is no one here What are you saying? Look there my uncle is coming Mr Viswanath police has surrounded this place None of you should move This is a tape recorder and this is a speaker If you are rowdy Billa, we both are smart Ranga If you are a blade The two of us are scissors If you are tobacco, we are cigar we will blow into your ear If you wear a coat which covers your feet and wear a hat Does it make you a boss? Who is that half baked? He looks like someone who has eaten jaggery in Annur market You think you can achieve what you want by not talking Uncle it is all your trick You recorded in a tape Cheated the police and committed a murder We are following your route You are our guru Why are you wasting time talking to these frauds Give this scatter brain a couple of shots and come Hello, this is Viswanathan speaking Send your men immediately Master, mail is following us I will give my life for love Your father is sending men on bikes and beating me up Master, save us Come quickly Master, come quickly We are scared master Master, come quickly Come and help us master Come quickly Come fast, master Save us master Please, save us master We are scared Come fast, master We are scared, master Come fast Oh God! We are scared, master Come fast, master Come Come and save us You sinners! You cheated us for 3 months with an artificial beard Shouldn't we fool you for 3 minutes? What happened? Go up and see aunty Where is aunty? Aunty Open the door For the last 1 hour she has locked herself inside I am scared Aunty open the door Look at me The mistake is mine Committing suicide is a cowardly act First you open the door Aunty Amma The door is here and he is running in the opposite direction What is the commotion here? No commotion What were you doing for 1 hour inside? Won't it take an hour to remove the black dye? We thought you will commit suicide Why commit suicide? To die... What mistake have I committed to commit suicide? I am not a man Aunty is not in the room No...? She has jumped out through the window at the back And is running towards the platform in order to commit suicide There is a train coming in her direction So you saw aunty run and the train coming in the opposite direction Haven't you stopped spinning a yarn? Show me who your father is... I will touch his feet and pray What a huge liar you are Fool is it you People normally say that friendship developed during a train journey... ...will end in the train But you have given me piles You have made me run down the streets like a dog You have got me into a paper dress and have the donkeys follow me In 14 different languages I asked everybody where Island Estate was No one helped me Island You learnt to speak 14 languages But did you learn to read 1 language at least? That is not Island Estate. It is Island Estate. Can it be uttered like that too? That is the proper pronunciation. She is Island Estate's owner Anyway with your blessings I've saved my mother Thanks a lot I don't need any thanks Not... Not you From now on you are the one who I'll address as mams Thank you a lot 55 years 3000 rupees salary 55 years 3000 rupees salary Why are you repeating it twice? Are you afraid you will forget it? I have mumbled it 200 times You know why A job which I should have got long ago I am just getting It is my mistaken horoscope Horoscope Yes, I have sevvai dosham 'Farewell'