Transcript for Other Voices (2000) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (alarm beeping) (siren blaring) (traffic zooming) (horn honking) (car alarm blaring) (melancholy music) (tense theme music) (tense music) - It's been there for almost 150 years. Remains of a city asylum, smallpox quarantine. They'll take only three days to raze the place, clear it out to make way for the temple ruins. Strange, I guess. Replacing one set of ruins with another. 'Course, the site we're installing is thousands of years old. Compared to that, 150 is just a speck in time. Sometimes I wonder how you do it. I show up and go on and on about nothing but myself. - Anna, you're in therapy. That's what you're here for. - Still, I feel like I should let you go and get on to some interesting patients with real problems, someone at least suicidal or something. - Just because you're not suicidal, Anna, I don't think any less of you. - Thanks, Doc. So, the bulk of the site should be here soon, two weeks, I think, and then we start the reconstruction of the temple which should take three months. - Oh, wow. That sounds very exciting. Must be looking forward to that. (clock ticking) - Yeah, I am. - But you know, I think we really should be discussing where your marriage is headed. Don't you think? - I guess. (horn honking) (crashing) - [TV Announcer] Service interruptions while Telecom strike negotiations are deadlocked. - [Man] Fuckin' train wreck. - [TV Announcer] Mobile phone service providers are claiming the resulting overload on the cell network may push sporadic-- (thudding) - Jesus! Did you hear about Collegeman? - What? - You know, Collegeman, that little fuck over at, uh, Weissman, Shooks and Nunyet? - Yeah. - Yeah well, last night, Collegeman is running to catch the express, and perhaps unjustly begins to leave without him, so he jams his briefcase in the door. Now, regardless of this action, the train begins to move down the platform. He starts running after it, yelling, screaming, protesting, finally manages last minute, yanked the briefcase out but his tie is still caught in the door. He can't get his tie out. His tie is caught. Fuckin' took his head off at the end of the platform. (siren blaring) Took his head right off. Cheap bastard's probably wearing a rayon tie. Silk one, 100% silk would have ripped, separated nicely, he would have been... But no, Collegeman had to save a couple of bucks on a double cock-sucking knit tie and the fucking I.R.T. took his head right off. I mean, right off. (phone ringing) Dropping like fuckin' flies out there, Philip. We're upon the path that's becoming clearer every day, you know what I'm sayin'? - Yeah, he should have worn another tie. - Yeah well, whatever. Beer? - I don't know, you know? I just feel like... Feel like we were different people back, I feel like, well, I feel like we're different people now. I don't know, I feel like, you know, maybe everybody's a different person from moment to moment and then-- - I think we should just leave that one alone, don't you think? (phone ringing) 'Scuse me. Hello? Uh, yes, yes. Just a moment, please. Now, I could do this, how's Thursday for you? - Naw, I just, I'll have water. - 'Scuse me, barkeep? Can we get a scotch and water for the gentleman and I'll have another one of these brown betties. Thanks very much for your help. (chattering) - Ever wonder where the water you drink comes from? - I'm having beer. - Fine all right, you ever thought about where the water that you shower with comes from? - What, the reservoir? - No, no, I'm talking about before the reservoir. I mean, do you realize that the water that you shower with might have been used by someone else? - All right. - Yeah, some guy might have taken a bath in the River Ganges or something and then it evaporates up into the atmosphere and then it rains down into the reservoir and then it comes out of your tap. - Can you make that scotch straight up, please? - John, I'm talkin' about molecules. Like, dollar bills or something. - Used water. - Like somebody on the other side of this planet has touched these molecules. - I don't give a fuck. - Someone, somewhere totally different might have been... made of these molecules. I think I'm having an affair. - What. What? - I'm seeing this woman. - Now, we were discussing the changes in your marriage, weren't we? - Yeah, I just, I think we covered that last week, didn't we? - Anna. - Yeah, okay. I just don't, you know, I don't even know that's there's a problem, actually, and I don't want to be alarmist or anything over a small issue. - Uh huh. - I'm seeing someone. (traffic zooming) (siren blaring) I'm seeing someone else. - Oh. (clock ticking) What exactly do you mean by seeing someone? - I've gotten involved with another man. - And you call this a small issue? - Well. - She Asian? No what, wait. - No, she's not Asian. - Is it that little chickie on the sev, holy shit. It's that little chickie on the 17th floor? That little tomato on the 17th floor? - It's not. - Every single fucking guy on the 22nd floor, I even started, they even started a pool to see who's gonna be the first and you-- - It's not some chickie on the 17th floor. I don't even know who you're talking about. - It's not the tomato on the 17th floor? - No. It's someone else. - I'm sorry to hear that. That's too bad. - Anna you have been married for seven, eight years and do you really consider having an affair with another man small issue? - No, I, I guess-- - Well, unfortunately, we have to stop now, but I think we should discuss this next time. Definitely yes. - Phil, you guys used to have something really, you know, really, together, really happening there, I mean, that was really quite exemplary. - Seems like another life now. (chattering) - Who is she? - Some other woman. Just someone else. - Does Anna know? (tense music) (somber music) (faint shouting) (tense music) - Hey, Sheila. - Hey, Anna. Jeff, your sister's here to see you. - Really? Send the most beautiful girl in the world right in. - Thank you. - [Jeff] Anna. - [Anna] Hi. - How are you? - [Anna] I'm good, good. - Such a nice break from all this stuff to see you. Why the surprise? - I don't know. I ain't seen ya in a while. Thought it'd be nice. You know? - Everything's okay, right? - [Anna] Yeah. - [Jeff] How's your shitheel? - Don't make me defend him, okay Jeff? I'm not in the mood lately. - Really? What's the model husband been up to lately? - [Sheila On Machine] You guys, sorry. Jeff, it's them on two. (stammering) - Sorry, hold on. Yeah, put 'em on. Hello? Yes, Jack. How are ya? Yeah, I wanted to talk to you about something my people heard from Frank's people. Those are not the figures we discussed, I believe. No. No, no, nobody's calling it that. I think one of your people might have slipped up somewhere. (mumbling on phone) No. (chuckling) Hey, you know I have nothing but the highest regard for your people, but my people... Wait, whoa, whose people? No, no, no, his people never... Wait, your people? Whose people? Hey! (popping) Look. Lemme just get back to ya. I got a big thing all over me, here. When? No, that's not gonna work. Nope, that's impossible. Hey! Look, why don't you just have one of your people get something out to my people outlining when would be an acceptable point to initiate a dialogue. Jack, please. Talk to me before you talk to Frank because if he talks to... (mumbling on phone) Right. Right, right. - [Anna] Jeff, what do you do here? - [Jeff] I work all goddamn day. - [Anna] But what do you do? - Make money for this goddamn company! - What do you actually do? I mean, when you get here in the morning, what is it you do? - Just get on the phone, generate correspondence. - You generate correspondence? - That's right. - What do you talk about with these people? Like, for example, what were talking about with that guy? - Just trying to negotiate on what grounds to have a meeting over drinks. - You're trying to decide which restaurant to go to? - Yeah, you could put it that way, yeah. - And what would you discuss at this meeting? (stammering) - A lot of disagreement and shuffling papers. I mean, usually we disagree first on exactly which papers to shuffle and then when we determine which papers are acceptable to all parties, we just hah! (popping) Shuffle 'em. - You certainly are making quite a bit of headway in this office. - Yeah well, someone's gotta do it. Look, despite your interpretation, I am a little busy here and I know you didn't stop by to talk to me about this shit, so, what is it? What? How's things with the model marriage? What's goin' on? - Nothing, you know. We don't do anything. Just sorta sit alone in the same room. - Good, well I'd rather hear that than some vile scene of him rubbing his naked sweatiness against you. - All right, Jeff. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Listen, my lunch opened up, so let's grab a bite. What do you say? 'Cause I wanna talk about this stuff. - Okay. - Okay, hold on. Hey, you didn't cancel the table at Flotsam, did you? - [Sheila On Speaker] No, not yet. You want me to? - No, no! Anna and I will take it. Fantastic, this is the hottest place in town for lunch. You're gonna love it. (traffic zooming) It's nice, huh? Took two months to get this table. - It's lovely. - [Chef] Go the fuck away, I told you that. Why dishes are fucking coming out cold? 'Cause you are not serving them fast. - No, I am serving them. You are not hearing. Where's Tommy, huh? Tommy was supposed to be here today. Not my entree. - [Chef] Go the fuck away. - [Waiter] You're giving me a very bad, stop pointing at me. - [Chef] Or what? - [Waiter] Stop pointing at me. - [Chef] Take it out the bitch. Go on! - Don't you think you coulda thought about this stuff seven years ago before you married him? - It's 10 years. I've been with him 10 years, since we were in school. - And it's taken you 'til now to realize he's a schmuck? Jesus, I mean, you shoulda listened to me back then. I mean, you should be out, you know? Just out there. - Out? Out where? Playing the field? - No, no. I wouldn't want you to be doin' that, it's just, I don't know, I just, I think you really blew it with this guy. - Okay, that's it? That's the choice I have to make? What guy to sell myself to? It's like I'm a lee, sound like I'm one of your goddamn papers being shuffled around from schmuck to schmuck. - Hey, all right, Anna, I wish there was some way I could help, but up 'til now I haven't been given the authority to change Phil into a real person, but uh, you know, I'll get a man on and see what we can come up with. Hey. Waiter, hah! (popping) - [Waiter] Yes, sir, yes, yes sir. - This fork, one of the uh... - That would be a spline. That's what that is. - Yeah, smart guy, one of the splines is bent. - Yes, I see that. - Do you realize what could happen to your insurance rates here if someone jabbed themselves with a crooked spline? Through the fuckin' roof, I assure you. - Jeff, Jeff, Jeff, it's okay. - Hah! (popping) - [Waiter] Please do not touch me. - Sorry-- - Hah! - Can we just have another, please? - [Jeff] Hah! (popping) - Yes, ma'am. - Hey, fuckin' dare he oughta. Hah, so for-- - Jeff, Jeff-- - [Jeff] Goddamn splines. - It's a utensil. - I'm sorry, you're right. Anyway, we were talking about Phil. - I don't know. We don't talk very much. Anymore. I don't know what he does. - What? - We don't really talk lately. (traffic zooming) - What the hell do mean? Is that bastard fuckin' around on you? - I don't know. I can't be sure. - Oh, that fuckin' scumbag. That really-- - Jeff, Jeff, I don't know that that's actually correct, so. - I swear if he's, hah, God. I swear, if he's fuckin' around-- - Please, please, please relax. I hadn't even thought about it and now it's making me sick. - Shitheel. I will, I will hah! - Please, you're making me crazy. - I will irreparably fuck him up, Anna. - Stop, stop, stop. Relax. - Hah! - Jeff! - No, you relax Anna! - Stop it! - Relax, relax, fuck, sorry! - Stop it, Jeff, please, please, please, please. - [Jeff] Sorry! Relax! - [Anna] Geez please, relax. - [Jeff] Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck! - Stop! - Sorry! - Stop fucking apologizing for it, sit down. Jesus, come on. You have got to start taking your goddamn medication. That shit is way outta hand. You know, I know-- - I wanna know-- - I knew you weren't gonna be any help. I don't even know what the fuck I'm doing here. - I wanna know if he's dickin' you around. The thought of him doin' that and then comin' home and sweating on you makes me fucking nauseous. Hah! (popping) - Jeff. (popping) - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't mean, look. I'm gonna-- - No, you know what, you're not gonna do anything. Don't do anything, okay? I can take care of myself. I don't need you driving me further out of my fucking mind. - I just wanna know and then we can do something about it. - Jeff, please. Listen, if there's any trouble like that, just forget it, okay? Everything is fine, I'm fine. Just forget it, please. (tires squealing) I gotta go. - Anna. Anna! (excited chattering) (horns honking) - [Man] Dumb shit! (uptempo music) - Wait a minute, it's tines, not splines. It's tines. Hey! Waiter! (tense dramatic music) Look up Anna's husband's office for me, please. - [Sheila On Speakerphone] I got him on line one but he's left for the day. Can I give him a message? - No! No! I just wanna know where they were again. Don't leave any message. - Oh, um sure, all right. (tense dramatic music) Here's the address. - Hey, did you say he was out for the whole day? - [Sheila] Yeah, they said he's out and to leave a message. - Out for the whole day, huh? (tense music) - Hey, I had to threaten to sue to get these tickets, baby. Goddamn, fuck I hope we don't miss this fight. Oh fuck. - Well, you were the one late meeting me here. - Yeah well, you're gonna thank me, man. This is just what you need to take the edge off. After the fight, Atlantic City, no windows, no clocks, drinks on the house all night long. - Great. You're the one actually paying $4,000 for a dozen drinks. - So, have two dozen. Listen, you gotta loosen up okay? We are in for some serious battering tonight. What is the problem with you? - I think I'm losing my wife. - Why do you say that, Phil, huh? Is this marital rift a little wider than we previously assessed? - I don't know. - What's goin' on? She playin' someone sock? - Well. - Ooh, that little vixen. She is. - I didn't say she was. - Who is it? Huh? Don't tell me, it's her shrink. I hope she's fuckin' her shrink. It's costing you $600 a week. Measures must be taken. We need to nip this in the dick. You want some helpful advice? (blades whirring) (mumbling) all hopped up on Zoloft (mumbling), before you know it, your medicine cabinet looks like some kinda E.R. We have to take measure against this fuckin' parasite! You hear me? Watch your, watch your head. Hey sweetheart, how you doin'? - I never met the guy, but I don't think it's her shrink. She never even talks about him. - Who the fuck is it, huh? Do you have an idea? - Well... (chattering) - What? What? - Well... - [Woman On Speaker] No smoking. - Found a cigarette butt at home. (mumbling on speaker) - Phil. Sheez. This is it. Phil, I'm sorry man. I shoulda told you a long time ago. I'm just a fuckin' coward. She and I have... Ah! (laughing) Nothing? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's not very funny, really. (laughing) The look on your face was priceless. You were like, ooh. - Christ, you're a jerk. You wonder why I don't talk to you about this shit. - Okay, I'm sorry. It is not funny, it's serious. What kind of smoke was it? - Dunhill, I think. - Oh man. Your wife is fuckin' some guy that smokes Dunhills? I am sorry. Must be her shrink. - [Captain Over Speaker] We're sorry, folks, but it's rush hour up here, too. We're lookin' at a little delay before takin' off, so as soon as traffic allows, we'll get moving. - Take a shit on me. We're gonna miss this fuckin' fight. (excited chattering) (faint whooping) Okay, Anna may be gettin' full filter from cigarette boy here, okay? There's no reason you guys have to end up in court messin' around with a bunch of cocksuckers like me. I have an idea. Some gentlemen at my firm who deal in this kind of... shit sometimes use this guy who's very hot right now. He's a P.I. - A what? - Private investigator. Private investigator. Best people pay top dollar okay, to have this guy go and look in on their spouse. No, listen. The best people. I think he could really help you out. - No, no, no. - Why not? - I don't need that sort of stuff. - Why? - I can handle this on my own. - Phil. Some fuckin' supermorph is pounding your wife into your sheets and snuffing his cigarette out in your little Snoopy cup and you don't want to know about it? - Hey, can you not talk about it like this? Can we just dismiss the whole issue, please? - Dismissed. (chattering) You're just gonna obsess about it though. You know it. I know you. Phil, you have got to stay on top of all things around you. You know what I'm saying? Enough bullshit, okay? I don't like to see you like this. Even I'm concerned about you. You are of no use to anybody 'til you get this shit-- (creaking) (blades whirring) (excited chattering) Hey, hey, hey! (mumbling) (blades whirring) What the fuck? - [Captain Over Speaker] Well, folks, we just, I think we almost made the front page of the Post. Sorry about the whoopsie-daisy. We figured everything out up here, but we missed our take off now so we're looking at another little delay, sorry. - Oh! Jesus H. fucking goddamn cocksucking Christ! What are these ass clowns doing up there? Wha, gonna miss this fuckin'-- - We coulda fallen off the edge of this building. - [John] Spilled my beer all over myself. I'm Schlitzed. - We could've, we coulda been smushed. - We coulda fuckin' been there by now. We coulda. Ringside, that's where we coulda been. - I gotta-- - What are you doin'? - Get outta here. I gotta get off this thing. - Phil, hey, hey, listen, hey take it easy. Pull it together, will you? - I'm being totally serious here, John. - Whoa, whoa, whoa. Enough of this horseshit-- - You are not understanding me, John, all right? - Hey, oh, all right, all right. Rope it in okay? Look, hey, we're takin' off. - No, no, no, no! Gotta get off! Please! I gotta get off! - Okay, whoa. Hold it, hold it, all right. Hold it. Miss, waitress, can you, my associate, help me out. (talking over each other) - Sir, is everything all right? - Okay, okay, let's, come on. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - It's all right, all right. You're gettin' off, you're gettin' off for Christ's sake. - [Man] Just throw him off. - Okay, which one's having a seizure? - [John] Uh no, ace, listen. Everything's under control here. We just need to get this gentleman out of here, okay? - Fine. Get him outta here. - [John] Yes, sir. Okay, here we go. - Feel like a total asshole. - It's all right, don't worry about it. We're all okay, thanks a lot. Sorry folks, nothin' to see. - 'Preciate it, John. - All right, all right, you're a bundle of fuckin' nerves, all right? Do me a favor, listen, I'm gonna call that guy that I'm talkin' about. - No, no, don't do that. Just, just forget about it. - Listen, take a few days off, okay, please. You're making me fuckin' nervous. (blades whirring) Let's go, let's go, let's get this baby airborne. (tense music) (clattering) - Hey. What are you doing here? I thought you were supposed to be in Atlantic City. - I had a rough day, I decided not to go. - Ah. Oh. - Can I come in? - It's a real mess. Can you-- - Can you let me in my house? - I didn't clean up, that's all. You're gonna be horrified. - Horrified? I'll bet. What the hell's going on here? - It's just a real mess, Phil. - What, are you hosting a rodeo in our living room? - [Anna] Phil. - Let me in. - Please. - Anna, open the goddamn door. (tense music) Expecting someone? What the hell you doing? - I thought they might make me feel better. - Feel better? - Yeah, I lit candles, Phil. Jesus, it's been hard on me lately, too, you know? This reconstruction project-- - [Phil] Demolition, you mean. - [Anna] You know, please stop calling it that. What's wrong with you? You look sick. Hey, what are you doing? - [Phil] Nothing. I'm sorry. (tense music) Sorry, I had a rough day, that's all. - What happened to you? (water rushing) - I'm just, endless meetings at the office all day. - Sounds miserable. - Oh, I don't know. Spending the whole day locked in hermetically sealed cubicle under fluorescent lights, listening to guys yell numbers at each other, these huge numbers. Such unbelievably large numbers. - Why don't you stop doing it? - What do you mean? - I mean, why don't you do something else? - I can't just do something else. - Why not? - Anna. This is our life. What, you think I can just suddenly shift who I am? - Why not? - Anna, what the fuck you talkin' about? It's easy for you to say. You're sitting around all day long waiting for a barge full of rocks to show up-- - What? - I'm out there dragging my ass. - Whoa, whoa, that's what I do. - What, digging up some archeological site to be sent here-- - Hey, hey. - Stuffed in a museum-- - Hey. - Some centerpiece for the cocktail party. - Phil, stop. We can't be this way. This is killing us. - Well, learn to live it. - Come on, games aren't helping anymore. They're consuming us. - Games? - Phil, do you know how scary it is to think about your life so far and have to stop because it bores you so much? It's the next to worse feeling in the world and do you know what the worst is? - I have an idea. - It's to see the rest of your life and know exactly what it will be, and to be so bored by that you can't stand it and you can't stand it so much you're dying to be someone else. Phil, that's the scariest feeling in the world and it's the way I feel all the time. - Do you want a divorce, Anna? - What? You're not even hearing me. You're not listening to a word I'm saying. - You could have someone else. - That's not the point. Phil, I feel like we're both just waiting for something and these games aren't helping. - These games. (tense music) Anna, are you seeing someone? - Oh Jesus, Phil, please, please, please stop for a moment and just be with me, okay? - What do you mean, how? - What do you mean how? You don't remember? - Who are you talking about? - Us. You don't remember us? - Who? - Oh Phil, please. I'm really lonely like this. Aren't you lonely? - Never really think about it. - [Anna] Please. - [Phil] Please what? (tense music) - I don't know. It's nothing, forget it. (tense music) - [Hal On TV] The crews will tear down the (mumbling) ruins to make way for the (mumbling) reconstruction project that should begin by this week. Martin? - [Martin On TV] Thank you, Hal. Meanwhile, at City Hall, officials say injuries (mumbling). (tense music) could number in the hundreds but insist the count could have been much higher had officers not been (mumbling). About 2,000 angry sanitation workers gathered for a rally demonstration (mumbling). But serious injuries were sustained by picketers once tear gas was employed. (whistle blowing) - Black out, brown out, whatever. The power's back up. Guess we gotta go through with this, huh? - Just because you said we're meeting with this guy doesn't mean I'm gonna hire him. - Hey, let's just see how it goes, okay? Then we can make a decision. - What's this we stuff? I didn't realize you'd married her, too. - No, I did not and that's a good thing. Hey, how you doin'? We're here to see Lou Jordin. - Yes, of course. Right this way. - [John] Can I get a couple of vodka tonics, no lime? - [Maitre'd] I'll send your waiter. - [John] Yeah okay, no lime, all right? No lime. Hey, Lou, how are ya? I'd like to introduce my client, Mr. Milrad. - Monsieur Milrad, how do you do? (tense music) - Mr. Jordin. I have to admit, I was a little reluctant about this meeting. - Yes, I can understand this. (laughing) - Seems to me a strange recourse to have-- - Mr. Milrad was a little uncertain about retaining your services (mumbling). I've assured him repeatedly that within your particular field, your effectiveness is unmatched. - 'Scuse me, fellas, Lou, you look great. Just wanna tell ya I really appreciate the way you handled that thing. - [Lou] Oh not at all, of course. - I appreciate it. This guy, he's the best. (chuckling) - Monsieur Milrad. How can I be of service? - Well, to tell you the truth, I don't know. - Let me help. Phil, here, has been disturbed lately over the possibility of extramarital activity on the part of his wife. - Yes. Yes. Monsieur Milrad, I must be clear at you, okay? I'm not in a business of merely documenting the illicit affairs of an unhappy marriage, okay? - Well, I don't understand. - My services go beyond the realm of simple surveillance. (speaking foreign language) - Lou here, offers a slightly different kind of approach. - What I do is... I correct the problem, okay? Not merely expose it. - I'm sorry, Mr. Jordin, but could you excuse my attorney and me for a moment, please? - What? What? - Okay. - Gimme a second, will ya? (beeping) (water rushing) Phil, what the fuck are you doing? I don't think you wanna piss this guy off. - No kidding. (mumbling) with a hit man. - Oh come now. - Who the hell is this guy? Does he think I want to have my wife shot? Crazy (mumbling). - Listen, will you relax? His manner may be a little odd, but he is the hottest in town. - The hottest what? Assassin? - Come on. Look, all he's saying is that his angle is a little steeper than snapping a few photos of your wife with some prick on a street corner, okay? This guy is about remedy, not record. That's what you want. He employs surgically precise applications of intimidation. Are you with me? Negative motivational tactics in the interest of his client in order to rectify a situation. - John, this is getting really weird. I think I'm through with it. - Phil, Phil, listen. What, all right. What he does is stop the problem by scaring the other guy away and nudging your wife back into line. - This is bullshit. The guy's a thug and I'm not gonna get involved with this stuff. - This is not like hiring Joey No Thumbs, okay, from downtown to break some guy's clavicles okay? It is a lot more sophis, it is a lot more sophisticated and discreet than (laughing) I mean... The man is downright debonair goddammit. (laughing) He's a class act, man, except for his teeth, he has an accent. (laughing) - Christ, you're weird. - Come on, come on, let's go talk to him and see what happens. He's from Europe. - You're weird. - Come on, I don't see. (mumbling) (foghorn bellowing) Listen, I apologize. My client needed a little counsel. He's still slightly hesitant about this. - I understand, look, Monsieur Milrad, I am a professional, okay? I'm not playing games here, okay? - Yes, okay. - Perhaps if your situation becomes intolerable we make a contract. But please, please don't waste my fucking time okay? (tense music) And your time, too. - I don't think anybody's trying to waste anybody's time. Mr. Milrad's just unfamiliar with your methods. I think I think it's very possible that we'll draft an agreement that we all find acceptable. - Let me ask you a question, Monsieur Milrad. Does the notion of your wife in bed with another man bother you? (tense music) - What? - Does the image of your wife making love to another man, okay, locked together, slick with sweat, crying out his name, does this image... Disturb you? (tense music) (faint moaning) - Phil? - [Lou] Does this image-- - Does that image-- (faint moaning) does that disturb you? (moaning) - What kind of fucking question is that? - Phil. Hey Phil, let's go easy okay? Hey, let's just try to answer Lou's questions. - That's some kind of fucking question. - Perhaps you like the idea, I don't know. Perhaps it's a big, sexy thing for you. I don't know. - Yes, the notion does disturb me quite a bit, yes. - Okay. If your wife were to be doing something like this, would you want it to continue? - 'Course not. - Does your wife smoke? - What? - Does your wife smoke? - No, she doesn't. - And you don't smoke either, do you? Does your wife's psychotherapist smoke the particular brand of cigarette that you have discovered? - You told him that? - Phil, Lou's services are in pretty high demand here, okay? I had to make it clear that you weren't just some jealous husband with an overactive imagination. - Monsieur Milrad, we live in a disposable society. Even marriages are disposable. It's almost as easy as throwing out your old air-conditioner. (chuckling) - I don't want to dispose of anything. - This is where I can help you. - All right, well, in an effort to avoid wasting your time, Mr. Jordin, I will have to think about it before I have anybody's office broken into. - Hey, hey, hey, let's go easy on that kind of language. What are you doing? - I'm leaving. Mr. Jordin, it has really been something, meeting you-- - Phil-- - But to be perfectly honest with you, I can't imagine that your services would prove productive-- - Phil. - So, thank you for your time. John, I'll speak to you later, goodbye. - Poor, stupid bastard. - [John] Can I get a cigarette now? - [Lou] Please. - He'll come around. - [Lou] Yes, when he's up to his ass in cigarette butts. (exciting chattering) (traffic zooming) (tense music) - So, I'm starting to think, I know that this sounds ridiculous-- - Uh, excuse me a minute. I have to close this. (speaking foreign language) (excited chattering) (traffic zooming) - Well, I just keep getting the feeling that maybe I'm being followed. - You know, these demonstrations are really getting out of hand. Anna, I know what you've been extremely bored lately and I just feel that you must try to keep yourself rational. - I know, I mean, I know. It sounds silly, but I really have been getting that feeling lately and I'm sure that I keep seeing this man wherever I go. That sounds dumb. - It sounds like perhaps you're feigning paranoia to justify your being here. - Well, I know what you're saying and I really don't think, why are you calling me paranoid? - I'm not calling you paranoid. I'm saying that perhaps you think that paranoid is an interesting thing to be. Anna, we're here to discuss some other issues. - Oh no, I don't wanna go into all that crap again. I really don't feel like talking about Phil. - I was not talking about him. You know who we are talking about and it does not directly involve him. - Oh yeah. Yeah. (phone ringing) - Excuse me, hel-- oh. (staticky mumbling) Just a minute. I'll be right back. Consuela! (siren blaring) (tense music) (faint yelling) (traffic zooming) (subway clacking) (tense music) (excited chattering) - Jesus. (mumbling on P.A.) - [Man On P.A.] Across the platform. Through the doors. Everyone step in please. - You gotta let me use the phone, man. - Sorry, man. - What do you mean, sorry? You gotta let me use the phone! This is a fucking emergency! (mumbling) - Okay, let's just work out some kind of aggregate figure then we can talk about consequential damages after that (mumbling) whatever. (phone ringing) Uh huh. Right. Why? That's what I'm talking about. Uh huh, hold on. Shit. Yeah. Noice, go. - Hello? - I'm takin' a bath. Gettin' fuckin' harpooned here. - My cell phone is (mumbling). - [John] She's gonna fuckin' buy! - Gotta use the phone! - John, is that you? (talking over each other) - The phone! - Speak! - John? - Go. - God. - Is that you, John? It's me, it's Phil. - Come on, man. - No Phil here, bye bye. - No! It's me, Phil! - What, Phil? - [Phil] I'm Phil! - Hold on, Mom. Phil? Hey, Phil! - John, don't dick me around, all right? I'm in the fuckin' I.R.T. - You're being a fucking asshole! - Leave me alone, man! - You're being an asshole. - You're at a phone booth? Hey man, cellular's back-- (buzzing) Ow! Belly up. Phil. - Listen, I'm in trouble here. - Hey, what is the problem? - Did you hire that guy without telling me? - Who? Who, Jordin? - Because I'm concerned here. I'm really, really concerned. - Okay, okay, listen. Hold on just a second. Could be better, could it be better? Come on, Mr. Chairman. Could you come over here and fuck me in the ass, okay, and then take my wallet-- - John, John-- - I did have a preliminary discussion with Jordin, okay? I have retained him preliminarily in your name by proxy as a gift to you, okay? - Don't (mumbling). There was a helicopter. Helicopter, it was an accident. - Go baby, go baby. (excited chattering) Please, I'll be really quick. - Is there any reason that he would have somebody tailing me? - Why, what do you mean? Go baby. - They're following me and I'm really spooked here, John. - Go baby, go. Who is it? - I don't know, that's what I'm asking you for. - Well, how the fuck am I supposed to know? Come on baby, come on baby. Come on baby. - John, look, you got-- - Come on baby. - John you-- - Come on baby. (mumbling) Yeah! You mother fucker. - John, you got me into this shady bullshit, now tell me what to do. (stammering) - Hey listen, I'm your broker, not your bodyguard, okay? You gotta relax. - Don't tell me that. (mumbling) - Okay, listen, listen. You're sounding hysterical, okay? There's no reason Jordin had you followed, okay? Phil? - Gotta go, John. - Phil? Phil? Phil? Phil? - [Jeff On Phone] Hello? - Hello? - [Jeff On Phone] This you? You little slut. - Who? - [Jeff On Phone] Whore, whoever you are. - Who is a whore? - You better forget about lover boy, because I'm about to break his goddamn neck! - Hey! Hey, company line. Hey, hey, hey. - Find you and I'm gonna burn your fuckin' house down. - Company line, company line, watch your language, buddy. - Slut! - [John] Hey, watch your language. Company line, you (mumbling). - Slut! - Fuck you, pal! Fuck you, fuck you, fuck you, pal. And lemme say how mother fucking dare you! Who the fuck do you think you're talking to? I'm a professional! Huh? Hello? Hello? Jesus. (phone ringing) The tomato's married. (tense dramatic music) - [Phil] Help me! Help! Help me! Help me! Help me! Help me! Help! (thudding) (groaning) - Sleazebag, (mumbling) sleeps with my sister, huh, huh? (yelling over each other) Fucking kill you-- - Crazy, man! (thudding) (grunting) (excited chattering) - [Man] Man. Ladies, what are you doing? Are you kidding me? (excited chattering) (sirens blaring) (chattering) (breathing heavily) - Could you send this to room 1132 please? - Oh yes, Ms. Johnson's room. - Yeah, yeah, right. - [Clerk] Yes sir, have a nice day. - [Phil] I have other plans. - Excuse me, sir. Excuse me, sir, he's in a very important meeting right now. You can't go in there. (excited chattering) You can't go in there! - Excuse me, gentlemen. Carry on the negotiations without me. Thank you, Diana, way to hold the fort. - [Receptionist] My name's not Diana. - Phil, I'm working here. Hey, what happened to your face? - The guy that was following me caught up with me. - Holy shit. Listen, I wanted to talk to you about that. Now, I had a little chat with this charmer on the phone, okay? Your other little indiscretion, this is her husband, okay, or her squeeze or something. The guy's a little off somehow. He was quite unreasonable on the phone. I feared he was gonna do something rash, which, you all right? You look like a two dollar steak. - Thanks, I feel stupendous. Look, John. This shit has got to stop, all right? The whole thing is getting way out of hand. - How is that my fault, huh? You might wanna reconsider your involvement with this Asian chick. - I'm talking about this fucking frog. The whole thing is making me nervous. Let's just put an end to it, all right? - What are you worried about Jordin for? - Look, I explicitly told you not to retain him. Besides that-- - Okay, Jordin is going to-- - Would you just listen to me? The thing is getting severely out of hand. - Okay, okay, listen. - All right. - Hey, hey, hey. You are the one who needs to stay on top of this, okay? Of all things at all times now, all right? Without me cradling your balls at every step. Christ, I'm your accountant, not your fuckin' marriage counselor, okay? What do I help you with? - I didn't, I never asked you to-- - I know. - So, I'm gonna go away for a few days-- - Good. - And I don't want to be worrying about who, whether I'm gonna come home-- - You pull your shit together, okay, and everything will work out fine, okay? Pull your shit together. Everything will work out fine, all right. If I were you, I'd forget about you know, whoever she is, because obviously, her other little pull toy is a little, little displeased. I gotta get back to the second party of the first part. Call me when you get back, all right? (excited chattering) All right, all right, all right. (thudding) All right! Jesus, I step out for one moment and you guys get all confused. - [Anna] Hey, what are you doing home? - I'm sorry. Did I interrupt something? - [Anna] No, you just startled me. What happened to your face? - Oh, nothin', just (mumbling). - [Anna] You okay? - Yeah, yeah, I just, stupid accident on the subway. - You sure? - No, but... - My God. You're all right? - Yeah. - This, that came for you today. Someone you know staying there? - What? What? - The hotel the stationery's from. Who's staying there? Is that a friend or business? - Um... Business. (tense music) Wait. - Wait, what? You look confused. Are you sure you're okay? - Where did you get this from? - I told you, somebody dropped it off in the mailbox. - Oh. (tense music) If you ever stand me up again, I'm going straight to your wife. I refuse to be hidden away any longer, like the mad woman in the attic. You will meet me at Il Iaccahammero tomorrow night at 10 p.m. Don't disappoint me. The other woman. I can't do that. - [Anna] Hmm? What's the matter? (tense music) - I uh... - [Anna] Is something wrong with you? What's, is it bad news or something? - No. No. (clacking) (chattering) - [Woman] It is so fucking hot out. - [Anna] What the hell's going on here? - The heating system went berserk this morning and he won't let me go home. - [Anna] Oh, God. How's he takin' it? - Well, he didn't come in 'til after lunch, so he hasn't had a full day of it, but I'd be careful right now. - [Anna] He didn't get in 'til after lunch? - Nope. - 25,675. 28,774.06. 740.86. 729.84. Hah! 25,660.9. - Christ Jeff, you've gotta open a window at least. - Hold on, hee! They don't open. Hee! (popping) 'Scuse me, Steve. I gotta go. Callin' back, hah! - Fucking ignite in here. - [Jeff] Told you they don't open. It's all glass. It's like a goddamn aquarium in here. (popping) Sorry! - Don't start with that stuff. Don't apologize every time. This is unbearable in here. - [Jeff] Yeah well, I'm fine, okay? - Jesus. - [Jeff] What, what is it Anna, 'cause I got a ton of shit I gotta get done here. Chill out! Hah! Where the hell are the... - Top drawer. Top drawer. - Oh, chill out, chill out! Not these, the uh... - [Sheila] Have you checked up your asshole? - Hey, hey, hey! Hey! - Hey, hey, Jeff! (thudding) Jeff. Calm down, okay? Not everybody works as well under adverse conditions as you do. Let her go home already. - Anna, what do you want? - I came to ask you something. - What? Can't you see I'm fuckin' busy here? - Where were you this morning? Why did you come in late? - Meeting, meetings, meetings. Get off of me. Hah! - Look. Today, Phil came home, okay. - Oh, really, the shitheel actually came home. Now, that, I mean (stammering). - Jeff. - To see the measure of devotion a man can-- - Jeff, stop. - Takes your fuckin' breath away. - Stop. - Hey, hey, I got it! - It looked like someone beat him up. - Oh, even better news. - Did you do something to Phil? - Me? Hey, I love the guy like a fuckin' brother. Why would I wanna harm a hair on his little pinhead? - Jeff. I asked you to stay out of my business and you end up pasting my husband? What is that? Who the hell do you think you are? My fucking father? - Hey! Hey! If I were Dad I wouldn't give a rat's ass about you, so don't, don't, don't come in here and attack me for caring about how you piss your life away. - Oh, would you rather I piss it away on somebody else? - Yeah, anybody. Look, Anna. I watched him for a couple days and uh... I saw... I wasn't gonna tell you but, I saw him with someone else. - What? - I watched him meet another woman. I mean, you wanted me to let you work it out for yourself. - You saw Phil with another woman? - Yeah, at a hotel. I know you didn't want me to, but I had to. Did it for you. Look, I know hah! (popping) I know I shouldn't have, but Anna. I'm sorry. I know this must be really tough for you. For some reason, hah! Hah! Hah! I'm sorry. - What did she look like? - What? - The other woman, did you see her? - No, not really, but you know, I mean, she was clearly some kind of tramp. - Really? - Yeah, heh! You get it. I mean, you're in another league. I'm sorry I had to tell you, but who better, right? I mean, so you can understand muh! My feelings about him now, can't you? - I don't feel so good. - [Jeff] Yeah, the whole thing makes me nauseous. Look, look how cute you were, look. - Actually, I feel pretty ill. - [Jeff] Look, hey! - I gotta go. - No, no, Anna don't. Don't cop out on this. We have to do something, Anna. Hah! Hah! (popping) Hmm. - Yeah, I got her leaving the brother's office. Should be on the way to the shrink's. Yeah, the shrink's out. No Dunhill, just a bunch of cigars. Nice ones, though. Delicious, in fact. Yeah, it's not the shrink. I can tell by now. - I think I'm beginning to hear what you're saying, though. Starting to realize that, that maybe what I had with this other man is, is nothing, you know, maybe you're right. - Anna, do you have any idea why this would happen? - I think I was confronted with the reflection of what I'd been doing and I didn't like it. - I mean, why would anyone do this to me? I mean, they obliterate my office and only take a box of cigars? I mean, what is that? - [Anna] I don't know, it's-- - I mean, but what's going on here? Everything just seems to be coming apart. - Well, exactly. Everything that I've built up to this point is crumbling and I think I see. I think I'm beginning to see. - Have you seen this man again? - I'm gonna see him today and I know what I have to say. I have to tell him it's over. This game-- - Oh no, no, no. I mean the man who was following you because I looked out that window and I saw a man standing on the corner staring up here and I thought, oh, he is watching this place, I mean, something very strange is going on, I mean-- - Dr. Grover, last week you ridiculed me for my pseudo-paranoia and I think you were right. I think it was, you know, just some sort of strange expression of my own inner conflict. - Not, no, I mean, what does this look like to you? Does this look like an expression of your inner conflict? - I don't know, I think it's, it's-- - I mean, look at these shelves. Look at my humidor. My second husband gave me that. (tense music) - Well you know, maybe I should just go. - No. You wait a minute, wait a minute. I wanna know about this man who's been following you. I wanna know what's going on. - What's the point of trying to talk to you about this? Fucking interiors are killing me. I've got to get out of here. - [Dr. Grover] Out? What, out there? Oh, oh no way. No way. (tense music) (breathing heavily) (moaning) - [Man] Is it like this with your husband? - [Anna] No. No. - [Man] Tell me. - Only with you. Only with you. (tense music) (clicking) My husband will be home soon. You better go. (tense music) (rain pattering) (windchime clinking) (tense music) (rain pattering) (muffled grunting) - You gotta have somebody's dick in you to make you feel like more than half a person, huh? Do ya? Because that's pathetic. It makes me fuckin' sick, and I'll tell ya, I don't think it'll make your husband feel pretty good, either. (tense music) (groaning) We can do this the hard way, or the harder way. (grunting) (chuckling) That's the hard way. You like that? I think maybe you like that, huh? You're into the rough stuff, huh? (tense music) - [TV Announcer] The finger pointing has already begun as officials try to explain why the barge was so far off course when it collided with the other vessel, capsizing and dumping its cargo. - I'll just leave you with a little picture of your boyfriend eatin' through a tube up his nose held together with steel wire, every tooth snapped out of his head, so you can clearly see me in a right tack for you to lay off, yeah? (mumbling) Doing that boy between your legs 'cause you never will. I promise you, never. (weeping) - [TV Announcer] Started saying the 20 ton stone blocks that comprise the ancient temple, slated for reconstruction here, have sunk in the extremely deep waters just off the continental shelf. - [Mink] And don't worry, I'm gonna have this very same conversation with your boyfriend. Ex-boyfriend, so you don't have to bother with any goodbyes and I'll be watching. You can count on it. (footsteps clunking) (tense music) (whimpering) (siren blaring) (excited chattering) (staticky tuning music) (yelling) (retching) - Watch the car, okay? Watch the car. - Yeah, yeah, excuse me. Excuse me. (thudding) - Oh, fuck. - [John] What's goin' on? - [Lou] They will be out in a moment, okay? Straight, here. - [John] I'm straight, I'm straight. Geez, what's takin' your man so long? - He will be out, okay, he will be out. - He's takin' his sweet fuckin' time about it. Listen, I'm about to go in there myself and get a goddamn beer. - You don't want to go in there. - Why not? They got beer in there, don't they, huh? (yelling) (cheering) - Fuck me, fuck y'all! - [Man] Shit, asshole! (yelling) - What are we doing here? - You got my note? - I got your threat. - You feel threatened? - No, more like cornered, but we do have to talk. - Yeah, it's a little late for that now, Phil, don't ya think? (scratchy tuning music) - Besides, I wouldn't mind seeing the look on her face when I walk in on her with this creep. And what a scumbag he must be. Look at this fuckin' place. Fuckin' animals. - [Lou] Impressive sound system. - I don't give a shit if they got a 10 jigawatt digital pornograph in there as long as they got a bar. I'll be back. - [Lou] I will be here, okay. - Christ all this trouble over a tomato. Can't believe you make a living at this horseshit. - Well, there is a demand, okay, and I fill it. Matter of simple economics, sir. - [John] Jeez, don't I know it? - Civilization is based upon the exchange of women. They are most valuable commodity. I function as a well, as a kind of bondsman. - That's fuckin' hogwash. You're an overpriced hatchet man, Lou. But you're cheaper than any divorce litigator I know. You're a cost effective alternative is what you are. - Look, look. Look around you, Mr. Bigshot, look around you. Society is coming apart at the seams, okay? Without someone like me, soon they'll be no hope of order. No hope. We must maintain, we must maintain or we will be lost. - Listen, this has got to stop. - What? - You, me. But, I can't do this anymore. I can't see you again. It's, my head is just-- - What do you think you have to go back to? - What? - Your wife? - Yeah, I'm fucking married, remember? - I don't know, Phil. See, I had a little talk with your wife. - What? - She knows, Phil. - What are you doing? - Don't you get it? She's left you. She's gone. Didn't you realize? (thudding) - You need to keep your fuckin' hands to yourself, Romeo. Now, we're goin' outside, have a talk right now. And you, I'm very disappointed with you. I thought we had an understanding. (grunting) Oh man, oh man, oh man. You should not have done that. That's the second great fuckin' error you made tonight. The first one was comin' here to meet her. - Who the fuck are you? - I'm the last guy you're gonna look at from a standing position, you fuckin' insect! Now, start movin' to the door, right now. - Get your fuckin' hands off me, man. I don't know you. - Last chance. This is your fuckin' last chance to leave here on your own power, I swear. I will pull your legs right through your fuckin' ass in a heartbeat. - What is this about? What do you want, huh? I don't understand. - It's about you and your date, goddammit. She's married, you small babyshit and you stuck your shriveled little pecker where it don't belong for the last time. - What! Wait a minute, wait-- (thudding) - That's it, we're takin' this outside. (tense metal music) (grunting) (rock music) ♪ That's it ♪ See me over ♪ That's it ♪ (mumbling) ♪ That's it - Hey, hey, if your man comes back with our birddog before I get back, you hang on to him. I wanna have a little word with Mr. Cigarette Butt myself. - [Lou] As you wish, monsieur. As you wish. - Hey, don't forget who's payin' the retainer, Lou, all right? And lose that head muff. You look like Omar fuckin' Sharif. (rock music) ♪ That's it ♪ (mumbling) ♪ That's it ♪ I hope it wasn't life, man (yelling) (cheering) ♪ That's it (excited chattering) - [Woman] Hey, let me in. Hey! (excited chattering) - Fire marshal, fire marshal, gotta get into this fuckin' place, man. (mumbling) Hey! Now, I want all you assholes to disperse by order of the fuckin' fire department. - [All] Fuck you! (rock music) ♪ That's it ♪ (mumbling) ♪ That's it ♪ I hope you have a nice day - Mick Jagger, plus one. I'm one. ♪ I kinda like it like that ♪ Right ♪ That's right What about Kissinger, okay? I got Henry goddamn Kissinger fuckin' truck, okay? You tellin' me Kissinger doesn't make the mother fuckin' list, huh? Hey, hey, I can see you. What might you be doing here, huh? I can see you. Hey! Phil, hey Phil. - Christ, what the hell are you doing here? - Actually, I'm glad to see you, man. I was just stoppin' in to the old (mumbling) for a beer. Listen, I just saw Anna. - Who? - What? (mumbling) - [Phil] Hey, hey, hands off me, mother fucker, goddammit! Shit! - Oh, for God... (grunting) - [Phil] Unhand me. - My, oh my God. - [John] What the fuck are you doing? - What, what? This is the guy. This is the fuckin' guy. - [John] This is my fuckin' client, you imbecile. - Gentlemen, gentlemen, please, Mink. Please let go of Monsieur Milrad. - Fuck. - [John] Bush league, bush fuckin' league. - What the fuck is going on here? What the fuck are you people doing? - Monsieur Milrad. I must apologize for Mink, I am sorry, but, he was acting in your service. - What? What kind of fucking service is that? Christ, what is wrong with you people? - Okay, Phil, listen to me, listen-- - I can't believe you did this. - Look, Monsieur Milrad, we were under the impression that your wife-- - My wife, my wi, look all right. I don't need your fucking service. - Hey listen, mister, I followed your wife here-- - All right, all right, all right, shut it, all right? Phil, listen to me. Let me clear this up, okay? This tower of shit here is, in fact, an agent of Mr. Jordin's, okay, and was acting within the parameters outlined by the agreement I entered into on your behalf-- - Oh, Christ, John, just please shut up. You just, you talk too much. You've gone way too far, here. I've had my life threatened twice in the past week and you talk too fucking much, so please, just lemme sort my own shit out. - Okay. Okay, gentlemen, what we have here is a minor, how you say, a minor snafu. (chuckling) Perhaps at this point-- - Terminate it, okay? Terminate it, Lou. You, your services, this giant colostomy bag, all correspondence, any other fuckin' monies, all agreements, that fuckin' hat, fuckin' terminate it, okay? And you. There is just too fuckin' much of you. What the fuck was going through that big helmet of yours? - How can we perform our services to the fullest extent under these conditions? We need the fullest cooperation from our clients. - Stop, just shut that fuckin' hole, okay? You're givin' me a fuckin' headache. - Oh, po, po, po. - I don't think we uh, there's any need to continue this discussion tonight, okay. That'll be all. You two can kindly go fuck yourselves. Hey, your name is mud in this town, Lou. I assure you. And don't call me, either one of you. You'll be hearing from my process server next. - Well, should I? - Please. - [John] Hey, Phil. Philip, Phil, Phil, Phil. Hey, hey, Phil. - Please, I've had enough. - Okay, listen, I'm just, I'm sorry 'bout that fuckin' nonsense back there, all right? I'm just tryin' to help you out, man. I'm just-- - How come I don't buy that, John, huh? How come it feels like it was all for you? - What? - Anything you can do to feel like you're on top of all things around you. How come it feels that way to me, huh? - [John] I don't know. - I mean, shit John, thanks. Thanks for the hand. You really helped the hell out of me there, you know? But since it's all about you, then maybe you're the one that needs help. Take a look at yourself, would you? - Hey no, I do not do that, okay? That I would find revolting, okay? I ignore, I'm good at ignoring, see. That's what I do, better than you. - And that makes you happy? - Happy, what? What? (chuckling) (siren blaring) It was you and Anna the whole time wasn't it? Shit. Jesus, you shoulda told me, man. - Don't, don't, don't, don't. This is about me and her. It's got nothin' to do with you or anybody else. - Jesus. I'm impressed, man. That is kinky. You guys turned out to be pretty weird after all. - Weird? Yeah, you dispatch this big bruiser boy to kick the shit outta me (mumbling). - Mink! Mink! Those two fuckin' guys, man. Even after that business in your apartment, those two ass clowns, totally fuckin' bamboozled. - What? - What? - What business in my apartment? - What, the... Hey Phil, listen. I told him that kinda shit was totally unacceptable, okay? When I first, when there was-- - Wait, wait, wait. What did they, was that mother fucker in our home? - Okay, I know it's profoundly fucked up, all right, but they insist it's part of some program, I-- - What the fuck happened? Did he touch Anna? - No, I lick, okay, I apologize, again-- - What did you do? Was Anna touched? - Hey, I did not sign off on-- (grunting) (heavy breathing) (car alarm blaring) - [Jeff] Hello? (tense music) (phone ringing) - [Phil On Machine] Hi, this is Phil and Anna's. Please leave a message at the beep. (beeping) Anna, pick up, if-- (coughing) Anna. Come on, please. (tense music) (beeping) - [Woman On Machine] You have five messages. Message number one. - [Jeff On Machine] It's him, it's me, Jeff. Listen, where the hell you been? I've been calling you don't ah! Fuck! Please, call me back. - [Woman On Machine] Message number two. (beeping) - [Dr. Grover On Machine] Hi, Anna, it's Dr. Grover. I got your note and I think you're right. I'm taking a break myself. I'm leaving my practice for a while. I think I'll just take a little time off and go away. - [Woman On Machine] Message number three. (beeping) - [Man On Machine] Hey, are you there? - [Anna] Phil, I think you know what has happened to us. I think we both realize that there's no reason to go back. There's nothing left, so I'm going, and I don't know if I'll ever return. Just know the person I was loved the person you were, and that will always mean something, even if those voices are gone. - [Woman On Machine] Message number four. (beeping) - [Jeff On Machine] Anna, hi, it's Jeff (coughing) again. Wanted to talk to you but I don't know what happened to you. Listen, (coughing) I wanted to tell you I quit my job. Sheila's filling (coughing) the position. I think my number was up. Yeah, I was just generating ha ha! (crashing) (tense music) (coughing) (clattering) - Gin, up, now. (faint chattering) Again. (horns honking) (siren blaring) Sequel. Encore. (faint yelling) (horn honking) Beer. (thudding) - Listen pal, we're closin' up here, all right? - Don't you fuckin' threaten me. - Hey, pal. These are the facts. It's late, it's gettin' real hairy out there and I gotta close this place up before all hell breaks loose. - Words. - Hey, pal. - These are mere words goddammit, sticks and st, while sticks and stones may-- - Yeah, I got those, too. Now, drink up. - Break my balls. (tense music) - [Phil] Are you okay? - Yeah, you? - [Phil] Yeah. Did that man hurt you? - What do you mean, I left. - No, I mean at home. I had no idea he was there. I'm so sorry. - You mean the man at the club? - No, no. Wait a minute. We need to speak to each other. - Oh, did your wife send that guy? Is that it? (siren blaring) (yelling) (crashing) - Hah! (tense music) - Now it's gettin' a little blurry. I mean, the wife, it's all fucked. Fucked up. It's fucked up. It's all gettin' fuckin' blurry, man. - All right, pal. Your number's up. Time to hit the bricks and beat it. - It's like we're all blurring into one another. I swear to God. - All right. Hey, Pete. Come on. - Hey, hey! Hold it. Hold it, hold it. Hold it, hold it! Hold it. (grunting) (mumbling) You guys do not stand a fuckin' chance. Understand me, huh? Get your fuckin' hands off me. You don't scare me. - [Bartender] Get the fuck outta here already. - [John] Yeah, you don't have a fuckin'... (excited chattering) You don't have a fuckin' prayer, you know that? (tense music) Counselor, huh? Fuck. (sirens blaring) (tense music) Can I fuckin' help you with somethin'? - [Mink] No, I'm gonna help myself. (chuckling) - Okay, you perfect asshole. Why don't you either tell me what you need right now or go fuck yourself and piss off while you're doin' it? Your choice. - [Mink] I'll tell you what I need. I need you to park it right there so I don't have to walk you down like a wounded animal. - [John] All right. I'm all yours, come on. (thudding) (grunting) (tense dramatic music) (siren blaring) - [Mink] Oh dammit, fuck. (coughing) (elevator music) (clattering) (coughing) - Hah! (popping) Huh, sorry! - Stop. Just stop doing this. - Doing what? - This, us. - Us. Us who? - All right, Anna. Come on, talk to me. What are we doing? How do we stop? - And do what, go back? - [Phil] This whole thing has gotten away from us. - Away from us? It was supposed to be for us. It was supposed to be between us. How could you violate that? You sent that man over. How could you do that? - I didn't, I never would have. Tell me he didn't hurt you. - How could you bring a stranger between us? - All right, let's just quit this and we'll go back and we'll start all over again. - I'm never going back there. When you sent that man, that was it. - No, no, no. Let's just go home. - Home. Place is like a fucking mausoleum. Home's where we've been entombed since the day we got married. We've started to become those people, those people I can't stand being for one more second. - You don't like who we are, so betrayal will set you free? - Betrayal? Who did I betray you with? You? - That's not me. If you make it someone else for yourself then it is and you did it. It was someone else and you liked it. - Listen to yourself. - You think you can stand being those people? I look in the mirror and I have to see the guy who's fucking my wife. - It was supposed to be exciting, Phil. Even for a moment, if we could just get back. - Back to what? - To something. To feeling something, to feeling anything. - Well, what are we gonna do? Stay in this room? It's exactly like the last one. - I'm leaving. - Anna, don't. - Why? Why not? - I understand why you wanna leave. Believe me, I understand, but if you can remember anything of me, that you saw when we met... Anna. - Phil. Please I have to find a place to start over because I won't make it here like this. (tense music) Come with me. (clattering) (tense music) (tense dramatic music) (crashing) (crashing) - Oh man, oh man, oh man, oh man. This serves to only piss me off. - I confess, I'm am gettin' a little pissed off myself, okay, so, and you do not wanna get into that! - Oh, is that right? - [John] Yeah. (thumping) (tense music) (beeping) - Open hah, hah, hee! Hah! (popping) Huh! (tense music) Hah! (popping) Hah, hah, hah! Hah! (popping) Hah, hey, hey! (mumbling) (tense music) (rustling) - [Mink] Oh! - [John] Ladder! - Now I'm severely irritated. I'm severely irritated. (clattering) That's the worst kind of news for you and your fat, alcoholic ass! (tense music) (clattering) (grunting) (thudding) (grunting) (tense music) - Okay. Gotta get... Fuck. (tense music) (muffled grunting) (muffled wailing) (breathing heavily) (tense music) (thudding) Barman! (tense music) Uh, hello, hello, I have a pizza. Pizza delivery. Open up, goddammit, pizza. Free trial. Open up, I got fuckin' pizza. (tense music) (mumbling) (siren blaring) (tense music) (breathing heavily) (tense music) Hey, don't make me come down there now! Come on! All right. (clattering) Oh great. (crashing) (clanging) (grunting) (alarm ringing) Okay, okay! - [Mink] Fight the coma, Mink. - Oh, for fuck's sake. (laughing) - You have to admit, this doesn't look very good for you now. - You had enough, asshole, huh? Because you know, all I got to offer is more of the same, you okay? Unless you're enjoying this horseshit. - You're gonna have to do more than knock me on my keester. - [John] Okay. - Hell, you'll recall (thudding) (mumbling) fucking angry! - Okay, (mumbling). Nothing! (mumbling) Little help would be good. - The fuckin' sissifer's with you! (thudding) (crashing) (grunting) (clanging) (tense music) (laughing) - Ah! Ah! (groaning) Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! (alarm ringing) - That's a silk tie, mother fucker! (laughing) One hundred fucking percent. (footsteps thudding) (yelling) (grunting) (thudding) (tense dramatic music) (breathing heavily) - It's you. It's you. What, it's you. It's you. (faint chattering) - Oh. (breathing heavily) (faint chattering) - [Mink] Oh, my head. Oh, really, really hurts. Oh, got a headache, a splitting headache. - What's that? - My fuckin' head, I got a splitting headache. - [John] Oh, man. - [Mink] Shit. - Yeah well, I guess that's to be expected, you know? One would expect a little discomfort what with me splittin' your head wide open! Ah! Okay, bye bye, take care. Love you. Keep the tie. (yelling) (horns honking) (coughing) (sirens blaring) (yelling) (tense music) Hey, how you doin'? - [Man] Get out of the fuckin' street. (mumbled yelling) (sirens blaring) (tense dramatic music) ("Only Mine" by Peter Salett) ♪ And the cold sweat ♪ Of my new dream ♪ I taste ♪ The truth ♪ As my mind swims ♪ To what I can't shake ♪ To the bones ♪ And skin of you ♪ Only mine ♪ Watch the night go ♪ Out my window ♪ Gathering the sun ♪ Weeping traces ♪ Of the faces ♪ That have been ♪ And those to come ♪ Only mine ♪ Only mine