Transcript for Leather Jacket Love Story (1997) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (upbeat techno music) ♫ Sometimes this world can be so cold ♫ I can hardly breathe ♫ When I'm much too proud ♫ When I get too shy ♫ To ask for a little warmth ♫ A little comfort ♫ From a simple act of compassion ♫ But getting wrapped up in your piece of fashion ♫ Would definitely lead to some steamy hot passion ♫ Oh yeah, baby, you look so sexy ♫ With that piece of leather on ♫ And I'm so cold and lonely ♫ Maybe you can spare it til dawn ♫ When the sun comes out ♫ And I might thaw out ♫ From the warmth of your loving arms ♫ It's so cold I can't breathe ♫ So give me some relief ♫ In return I'll show you my magic charms ♫ Now asking is a bit too much ♫ Because I'm a bit too shy ♫ But when my flirtations touch ♫ I'm just gonna say hi ♫ Give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Let me put it on ♫ It's much too cold out here, my dear ♫ So stay with me til dawn ♫ Oh, give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Let me slip it on ♫ I'll give it back in the morning ♫ If you stick around til dawn ♫ Give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Let me put it on ♫ Give me that leather jacket, baby - [Kyle] From the mountainous veils to the oceans, love does not appear. Truly in the inking moonlight, the pitiless stars laugh. And yet, when does love speed its arrow to my heart? Abandoned by family and friends, I open my heart. From the noble mountains, to the churning oceans, live does not appear. Truly in the inking moonlight, the pitiless stars laugh. And laugh. - Hi. - Hi guys. (burlesque music) - Very nice. - That's me, Kyle Rogers. I'm 18 and I've been out since puberty. I grew up in the valley but I've been spending most of my time in West Hollywood with Ian, my best friend since grade school. And that's Ian. And this is his place. I don't know who the other two guys are, Brads, Chads, Ian changes his pool decor pretty often. You might think I'm living the life but in this West Hollywood lifestyle of sun, booze, and guys gets tired really fast. It's the summer before college. I'm bored and as you can hear, my poetry's going nowhere. Which is why I'm moving. I think that a change of pace will jumpstart my writing and Silver Lake seems like the perfect place. As you'll soon see, it's hip, it's gay, and poets are everywhere. In Silver Lake, Bohemian is a way of life. In West Hollywood it's a fashion choice. I'm sure Ian would disagree. - There you are. I've been looking everywhere for you. - Really? (laughs) - Look at all these hot guys. Who knows, maybe you'll meet some poets here. - (Laughs) Man, I really doubt I'll find any real poets here. - Not with that attitude, Kyle. - It's time to get a life. - Excuse me. But I think if you'd look around, you'd find that you already have one. - That's what I mean. It's boring. How am I supposed to write about something when there's nothing to write about? - Look, my mother went through EST so I know what you're saying. But I want to know is, is why you're not having sex anymore. - It's not that I'm not having sex anymore, it's that I wanna, I wanna focus on my writing right now. I want that to be my priority. - But aren't poets supposed to have sex, Kyle? I mean isn't that what they get their inspiration from? (laughs) - Ian, it's not just about getting your rocks off, it's about having a special experience. - The last time I checked, Kyle, sex counted as an experience. Look, this rebel thing's getting really tired, Kyle. I got over it when I was 16 years old. Remember when I shaved my head? - Yeah, I kind of liked it. It looked sort of cool. - Right, I just wanted my parents to wig out enough to get me a car, and it worked. Lighten up. Why can't you face reality? - Why can't my reality be, (sighs), I don't know, adventures? (laughing) - Right, Ms. Indiana Jones. Look, I'm going to the gym. Do you wanna go? - I'm packing today, remember? - Oh yeah. So you need any help? - Nah, it's okay. I've got it covered. - What the hell is that? - So, this is my audience for this voice for boys. (laughing) Oh, what do we have here? Two little lovebirds. I wish you all the happiness in the world. Oh, and darling, do be a dear and buy another pair of knee pads for the steam room at the gym. (laughing) Oh, oh, my, my, my. What do we have here? Mm, nice body, nice clothes. Nice hair. (laughing) (gasps) And who might this little innocent? Oh, ho, ho, ho, oh, the selected poems of William Blake. Oh, a poet. (gasps) In a forest of the night, what immortal hand or eye, dare frame thy fearful symmetry? (laughing) Oh, do be careful, little lamb. There are many hungry tigers out there in the night. One touch and they'll burn you up. Out there, it's only you, and love, and the tigers. Can you handle it? - Now feel free to bring your friends home with or without their toys. - Mom. - Well, that's what they're called isn't it? Honey, be careful. And don't let those tops push you around. Unless you want them to. - Bye, Mom. - Baby, I love you. - Bye, Grandma. - Bye, Sweetheart. - And remember, safe, sane, and conventional. I mean, conventional. - And be sure you use those condoms. (upbeat playful music) - No, it's nothing like the old days. People think they can write because they attended a writer's workshop. For Chrissake, what the hell kind of writing is that? We used to go to Venice Beach and drop acid. It's nothing like t was in the old days. - All my best friends are gay. I mean gay guys are cool. There's no competition with the women. You don't gotta worry about them running into your chick. Of course gay guys always come onto me, eventually, and they end up wanting to suck my dick. - Can you believe it, they now even have Hollywood actors reading poetry and some of it's their own poetry? - But I think it's cool, I mean, I'm only straight but a mouth is a mouth, you know? Don't you agree? - [Patron] She says she thinks that I should come back home. It's too strange in California. I said, mother, you live in Dayton. Why would I want to go back there? She said, it's Dayton. - Excuse me. Hi, can I have an ice mocha with a small head on it, please? - Gee, Mr. Individuality, you're blazing your own trail, aren't you? (upbeat piano music) - Thank you. - [All Three] Oh, hello. - Hi. (upbeat piano music) - Excuse me, but are you a writer or is that your diary? - Oh, I write. - What kind of a writer are you? - I write poetry, mostly romantic. - [Patron] I told you. - Shit, the poets are thicker than roaches in this dump. - What? - I'm sorry for my friends rudeness, we were hoping that you a screenwriter. - Why? - Well, you see, I realize that only the dynamism of the silver screen could possibly hope to capture the panorama of my fascinating life. - You mean my life story. - I just hope they can get Madonna to play my starring role. - Keep that trashy slut out of my movie. I want some classy actress, like that Katherine Deneuve. I'll probably have to help her out on the accent though. And besides, I just love French food. - I'm afraid that only I could play out my own drama in a movie. - Wouldn't you like a book of poems written about you? - Child, no itty bitty book of poems is going to keep me on the cover of Entertainment Weekly. Here, let me just take a look at that. - Well, I don't usually let people read through my stuff. - Oh come on, give. - Maybe your poetry's too good for ordinary folk like us. - Okay. Now on the Psalm of Narcissist there's a double metaphor that you gotta watch out-- - Hush up now. We're reading. (engine idles) (calm music) - Hi sweetheart, how are you doin'? - Well, look who's here. The usual suspects. - It's a male thing. - Yeah, ain't they pretty? - [Mike] Oh, you changed to pink, thank God. - [Sam] You're too ugly to. - [Mike] Yeah well, Sam, look who's in it. For example. - [Sam] Yeah, but I have to like looking at it. The usual? - Ah, whatever. - Maybe you want the chicken special. - I don't care. - Ah, don't look now, man. I think you're being seriously cruised. - Really? - Just make sure this one's got a driver's permit, will ya? - He lives down the street in the little house behind The Green Door. Great parties I hear. I bet his motorcycle seat is nice and warm and smells like fresh baked bread. - He's not my type. - Forget about specials, what's that old proverb? Why go to the store for eggs when the chickens on the loose. - I think it's, why buy the cow when the milk is free. Besides, he's not your type. - Ah, you never know. - Trash. Be right back. Hi, Darla. Two chicken specials, please. - [Darla] Two chicken specials coming right up for ya, honey. - I felt someone's eyes burning a hole in my ass when I walked in here. Was that you? - I'm sorry, I didn't mean to-- - It's all right, you don't have to apologize. It felt good. My name's Mike. - Hi, I'm Kyle. - Hi, Kyle. - Tada. Hey, don't forget the tip jar. - Do you wanna sit down? Your friend, isn't he your boyfriend? - Well, does anybody have a boyfriend nowadays? Listen, give me a call sometime. - So, I read your poems. Hello. Anybody in there? Do you have a boyfriend? - No, not now. - [both] Mm-hmm. (laughing) - Girls, let's get outta here, we've got some living to do. - Good luck. (whip cracking) (whip cracking) (phone ringing) - Dammit. Hello. - What are you doing, spanking it? - No, I had to run to get the phone. - You never run, unless it's last call. So you wanna go out tonight? - No, I can't. I'm going to poetry reading. - I can't believe you're wasting a perfectly good Friday night on a poetry reading. You never do anything with me anymore, Kyle. - [Kyle] What? Come to hear some poetry. - Uh, I don't think so, you won't find me skipping out on a Friday night unless it's a rave underwear party with at least 500 dudes. And I don't think there are 500 guys who look good in underwear living East of La Brea, Kyle. - Ian, you would be surprised. - Okay, breaks over. Now, I hope you all have had your caffeine fixes. But just in case you haven't, we have a little reminder for you. Direct from the sunny fields of Columbia, the Silver Lake cafe is very proud to present, the Valdez Sisters. (applause) - This song is for our sister behind the counter. - Cheers girls. - Hit it. ♫ I ain't your mamacita ♫ So shove your macho plan ♫ Won't be no Mrs. Olsen ♫ With coffeepot in my hand ♫ You want some nice hot java ♫ You want it mountain grown ♫ Well get your ass up off that couch ♫ You listening to me, holmes ♫ Get your own damn coffee ♫ Get your own damn coffee ♫ I'm a woman of the 90's ♫ I got too much to do ♫ I'm working on my career, babe ♫ I can't get coffee for two ♫ You want it black and steamy ♫ You want it nice and pink ♫ You know where the pot is ♫ Cause I don't give a ♫ Get your own damn coffee ♫ Get your own damn coffee ♫ Get your own damn coffee ♫ Get your own damn coffee (applause) - Woo! Woo, honey! - Thank you very much ladies. I never knew Juan Valdez had so many sisters. What else is there to do in Columbia? (sniffing) For those of you who do not know me, my name is Martine. I am the proprietoress of this humble establishment. And I also serve as the mistress of ceremonies for Mondo Poetry weekend. Now I ask you to treat the readers with respect. Just because you hate the stuff doesn't mean the poet's mother doesn't love it. (laughter) Our last but by no means late reader tonight has a unique style and he's a regular here, at the Silver Lake Cafe. Now I want you all to give a warm Silver Lake Cafe welcome to Jack Neal. (applause) - Thank you. Oh tired sphincter boy You are my toy As my shafty love Finds your hole Get me to go You little ho, my turtle dove Oh tired sphincter boy Watch what you are and you will be A pansy on my heart I want you for tea Mad said the hatter Alice left the party late Good thing too, for you were on my plate A delightful appetizer Does it matter what size or to what lengths we can attain? Keep on, keep on oh tired sphincter boy no matter the pain We butter old jam Marmalade or Promise margarine Fresh fruit, no fat, high fiber we spring to the margin of all our recesses Sharing each other down To morsel in neat Oh yes, extra butter and on it I sit. And eluga, melanoma, spots and locks. My treasures accumulate like cumulonimbus clouds in the sky. Puffy as the pillows on which you now lie. Wheat can't be beat. Your dimples are merry. Our passion so very neat in our love heat. I don't mean to be contrary. With silver bells and cockleshells. Fume, pearls, swirls, bergamot marmot, all that I got. Every little twirl for you. Oh my little rosebud. Eager and stout. You are my teacup and I, I am your spout. The end. (applause) - Thank you, Jack. You know, I have to tell you, I may never be able to look at a cup of Earl Gray quite the same way again. - Any time, love. - Well, it has been quite a night. With a wide range of talent. Just stick around, meet the poets, have more coffee, and be sure to come back tomorrow night and Sunday night as Silver Lake Cafe continues with Mondo Poetry weekend. Thank you very, very much. (applause) - Excuse me. I just wanted to say how much I really enjoyed your poem. - Oh, thank you. The audience was a bit slow tonight. This is my lover and my biggest fan. Julian, please meet, what is your name? - Kyle. - Kyle. - Could I buy you guys some coffee or something. - But of course. - No thanks. We're supposed to be at Bob and Sergio's over half hour ago. - Can I help it if my fans demand attention? Yes, just for a few minutes, no more. - I write poetry too. - Oh. - Yeah, I'm going to be studying it this Fall. - Really? So where will you be taking classes? - At UCLA. - Oh, now that's a good school. You must be very talented. - Hello, hello, I can help somebody over here. Isn't anybody listening? Hey blondie, you, hi, can I help you? - Okay, um well, I'd like to get a lemon tea with honey and no lemon and I'd like to get a double espresso with three twists and an iced mocha for myself with a short head on it. - Always a short head. Oh, I remember you from this morning. A small head, you mean like a pinhead? Well, honey for you it's one pinhead special. - I like what you did with the flower and water entry in the poem. Although I was most impressed at the end of the poem how you never really see the teapot pour out any water or tea, it was left to the listeners imagination. - Look, I know you're being sweet. How old are you anyway? - 18. - 18, Kyle, that poem is only about fucking. I titled it, Tired Sphincter Boy. - I thought it was your polemic against the corrupt American value system. - Oh, just by my standing up and reading my love poems to Julian is enough to make the heterosexist American running dogs treadmill in their stormtrooping boots. Pass the sugar please. Thank you. Sometimes a poem about fucking is just a poem about fucking. - How do you know the difference? - Have you ever been in love before? - Yeah, I guess. - If you have to guess then the answer is no. Have you ever been driven, been possessed by someone enough that they bubble up inside you and you have to write about them or you just go mad? - I've written some love poems though. - Turgid lines about mountains and churning oceans and sad stars I'd wager. Now Lord knows I filled notebooks with lines like that. And then I met Julian, my muse. Well then the words started to come by themselves. Oh they weren't perfect by any means but they were pretty good. I started to write about how I felt about things, not what I thought. They were simple little poems. - It was my favorites. - They would be. They were all about him. - [Julian] We have got to go. - You're right. You're right. Don't worry, you'll find your muse, all right. Or, your muse will find you. - It's cute. A little small though. - Oh well, if you're going to be the size queen. - No, no, no, no, I was just, just kidding. Sorry. - I'm just kidding, here you go. That's twice. - What, what's twice? - That's twice you said you said you're sorry. The first time was this morning when you apologized for staring at my ass and now when you've accused me of bringing you too small an endowment. Besides, it's not the meat, it's how it's packed. - You've got a good memory. - For important things. - Look, about today, I am sorry-- - Uh-Uh, uh uh uh uh. (laughing) - All right, what is that, three strikes in a row? - Not at all. I think you're good for six or seven strikes. (clears throat) So, you been here a long time? - [Kyle] Since the beginning of the poetry reading. There were some interesting readers. Were you here? - Oh, no, no, I don't go in for that arty stuff. Most of the time I don't get what writers talking about anyway. Figure people should just say what they mean. Probably rather do things than hear about them anyway. So, you write? - I'm trying. I just moved here from the valley. - [Mike] Oh really, where? - Sherman Oaks. - [Mike] Oh, I come from North Hollywood. - Maybe we know some of the same people. - I don't think so. Different parts of the valley. Different eras too. So, Kyle, tell me a story about your sordid past. - Hm, I don't know, it's hard to pick just one. I started dating guys in the 6th grade. - Do tell. - My friend, Ian, he was my first boyfriend. Now he's my best friend. He used to invite guys over to his house to try out his new Vespa and as soon as you got over there, he'd jump your bones, right? - That's the first time you had sex with a guy? - Well, I had to wait awhile because he, he had all the other guys in the class who were before me. I couldn't take it anymore so I marched over to his place and asked him why. - Oh, pushy bottom. Pushy convenience. - Anyways, Ian told me that he was saving me for last. When he told me, I felt all hot and cold inside. Ian says he has to protect me from myself. He- - Why are you so bad you need protection? - [Kyle] Says I don't have enough fun, I'm too serious. I guess he's right, sometimes. - I used to hang out in those bars at North Hollywood. - So was that the first time you had sex with a man? - No, by the time I was legal drinking age, I had already joined the army. It's the gayest place on Earth. (laughing) If they took all the gays and lesbians out of the military, there wouldn't be enough people left to defend Rhode Island. - Were you in Vietnam? - Vietnam? Kyle, I'm older than you, I'm not that much older than you. Sam went to Vietnam. - So, Sam's not your lover? - Sam, we've had this carpentry business together for seven years. Lived together on and off during that time. - So what is it now? Is it on or off? - It's on but we have an understanding. - Mm-Hmm. - Sam's long since given up trying to reform me. You know you can learn a lot about a person from their hands. You have long fingers. That's always a good sign. - What's that? - There's no ring indentation. The subject has not had any long term relationships or perhaps the subject doesn't feel any need to broadcast the state of his relationships, independent thinker type. - Actually, they say it's the eyes that are the windows to the soul. - So, what do my eyes tell you about me? - I don't know. It's just a saying, I don't-- - [Mike] Come on. - Okay. Well, they're not bloodshot, that's a good sign. - Aren't you going to tell me they look like two lipid pools? - There's probably something else we should discuss. - Uh, negative, but I don't know how that happened. - I'm negative also. (exhales) The first time I heard about AIDS I was seven or eight years old. I've grown up with safe sex. It's all I've ever known. - So, want to go do something? - [Kyle] Could I take your jacket? - Sure. (laughing) - [Mike] Go ahead. Put it on. - Yeah. (Laughs) Cool. (laughs) - Like that. (moaning) - No. No. No, Mike, it's, Mike, no, stop. Sorry. I really want to, I ca-- - What am I doing here then? You, you want me to go? - No, no. It's just that, can't we, can't we just try sleeping together, you know, just sleeping for now? - Sure. I sleep in the nude. Hope you don't mind. - No. (sighs) Um, I'm just, I'll just be a minute. (upbeat fun music) (gargling) Well, um, goodnight. - Goodnight. - I'm trying so hard not to be horny. - So don't try so hard. - I wonder, does mutual masturbation count as sex? - Anything can count as sex. If it's done right. (fun playful music) (moaning) (moaning in pleasure) - I was wondering. Do you have anything to do today? - Sam and I are going to fix the roof on the Silver Lake Cafe. - When do you start? - About noon, why? - Well, I've got some graduation money saved and I was thinking I'd get my own leather jacket. Would you come with me? - What kind you want to get? - I don't know, I guess I'll just see what they've got. Where did you get this one? - A gift. A friend of mine, Steve. - An old boyfriend? - No, just a friend. You've got a nice view from your apartment. Let's get out of here. (upbeat music) (mumbles) (screaming joyfully) - Whew! - They is a match. (upbeat music) (slow orchestral music) - So, this is your new hangout. - Ian, what are you doing here? - Checking out your new neighborhood. - [Kyle] Ha, ha, ha. - I'd only come this far East of La Guerra for you. There's nothing here, Kyle. It's freaked. This is Kyle. - Hi. - Kyle, this is, oh it doesn't matter. (mumbles) Scandinavian exchange student, doesn't speak a word of English, thank God. You know, you like a refugee from the VILLAGE People, Kyle. - I've been told look good in leather, Ian. - [Ian] You're doing it again. - What? - You're dating somebody, aren't ya? - Sort of. - Every time you get a new boyfriend, you turn all trippy and just start imitating them. - What do you mean, I don't do-- - What do I mean? - Yeah. (scoffs) - Remember Scott, the surfer dude? Did you finally sell that surf board? You used it, what, twice? And then there was Marco, the one who was studying for his bar exam. And you started Pricing Beemers. - Mike is different. - Ew, Mike. - Yeah. So, where is this Mike, hmm? - He's working up on the roof. - On the roof? - Mm-Hmm. - So, where'd you go last night? - Where I always go. Out. - What's eating you? - Just want to concentrate on my work. (laughing) - Oh, so you're falling for this guy, Lyle? - Kyle. What makes you think I'm falling for him? - I've lived and worked with you for over seven years, Mike, if it was just sex we'd talk about what this guy does in and out of bed. It's like you've got to talk this guy out of your life. - It was one night. - [Sam] Sometimes it takes you, what, a couple of days sometimes a couple of months, but eventually you get 'em out of your system. - Thank you, (mumbles). - But I've seen those occasions, rare though they are, when you're stuck on someone. What is it about him? (laughing) They're young enough to be my kids, Mike. - It's not that bad. - Come on, man. The gay marketplace, how can people compete with such fresh produce. - There's something to be said for a good old-fashioned aged meat. - Old, yeah well there's just too many damn fucking vegetarians nowadays. - Break out the Geritol. Kyle, seriously, don't you think he's just a little bit old for you? - Ian, he's only 29. - 29? He could be your father. - You'll never get it, man. - [Sam] Kyle is the one in the leather jacket, huh? - Went out and bought it for him this morning. - Oh, oh. You went shopping together? Oh man, this is something. So when did you start going after the young ones, Mike? - I haven't. Look, I don't know what to say, Sam. I mean he's not even my type. - Yeah, I wonder where I've heard that before. (laughing) - I hate it when you're right. - I'd ask you if you want to talk about it, but um, you don't. Oh, yeah, okay, all right. All right, all right, all right. Come on, man. (laughing) You save that for my birthday present. You owe me. - Come on, I'll walk you down. - That is a lovely addition to your health maintenance plan. (car alarm blares) Oh, that's mine. Gotta go. - Okay. - Give me a call sometime, okay? - [Kyle] Bye. - Come on. - Bye. - Come on, let's go. - [Kyle] Bye. ♫ Hey, ay ay, uh huh ♫ Yeah ♫ I slept with you ♫ Looks like I will have wept over you ♫ I made love to you ♫ Looks like I was just getting screwed ♫ Why can't this be true ♫ For you there's just no substitute ♫ For me, for you ♫ Do you even give a hoot ♫ Well, I'm a sucker ♫ I suck on you - Work it, work it, work it. I hate veteran guys. - I hate la turistas. I'll take the regulars any day. - [Female Patron] I'm going to kill the bitch that stole my eyeliner. - Hey. - Hey, where's Sam going? - Oh, I told him to knock off early. Listen, I don't have a lot of time to but... You okay? - Yeah, guess I just didn't get enough sleep. - You complaining? - No, not about that. (laughing) Mike, why do you find me attractive? - What? - [Kyle] Why do you find me attractive? - I don't know. Why does anybody find anybody attractive? It's a lifetime mystery. You're a poet, write a poem about it. You figure it out. (laughs) I just know what I like. Anyway, it's Sam's 40th birthday, we're gonna have a party for him over at this bar and I wondered if you wanted to be my guest. Wear that cool leather jacket. It's at the Faultline. - The Faultline. That's the legendary leather bar, huh? - Oh, I'll call 'em and tell 'em to put your name on the list. - Well, look, Mike. Can we go together? - No, I've got to finish up on the roof and then I've got to go see about Sam's birthday present. See ya back there. - Yeah, okay. - Next is page 27, mandatory multicultural application form. Find your ethnic identification group, the amount of funds awarded is influenced not only by the quality of your work, but by the multicultural quota system currently in place. If you do not find your ethnic identification group on the following list, then go to the end of the application on page 56. Good luck. Great. My parents were from Poland. That doesn't count for anything. They don't even have Eastern Europe on this list. Let me see. My Grandmother, my great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandmother was conquered by the Cossacks and they were Asian, weren't they? So I guess I could just check off Asian as my nationality. - Hey, fucking faggot. I guess this is a fucking faggot neighborhood after all. - [Thug] Yeah, it looks like a cocksucker to me. - Kiss my gay ass, you shit. (laughing) - [Thug] Shut up, you faggot. - Hey guys. - [Thug] Yeah? - Maybe if we smash all his teeth out, he's not going to have such a smart mouth. - [Thug] Yeah, this fucking fag will look pretty funny without his teeth. - [Thug 2] Yeah, I'm in the mood to bitch slap a faggot. - Nice jacket. Might take it for myself accept its probably got faggots AIDS germs on it. (laughing) - What the fuck is this? - Well, what are you doing out here walking alone, beat it. (laughing) - [Kyle] Should I call the cops? - The police, they won't do any good. These assholes don't like even odds. - Who the fuck are you? - We're the neighborhood watch patrol, jerk. Go, now! - Now, we don't want any trouble. Just keep your ugly asses in your own neighborhood and we won't bother you. - Fuck you. - Not with that tiny little thing you've got in your pants. - Besides, we don't know where it's been. - Probably nowhere. - Fucking fairies. - That's right, honey. Our wings takes us high. - Goddamn, perverts. - Now don't take God's name in vane, honey. That will surely piss her off. - [Thug] Her? - You're all sick. - What makes me sick is looking at your ugly face. (screaming) - Oh, god. Dammit! (grunting in pain) (squeals) (moans) (grunts) (gunfire) (crying) - You've done it now. (crying) (upbeat music) - Hello, this is a private party. - I'm on the list. Kyle, Kyle Rogers. - I don't see any Kyle Rogers. Are you sure you're not Roger Kyle? - Yeah, I'm sure. Well, maybe you have the wrong party. - Um, Mike, a friend of Sam's he put my name on the list a few hours ago. - Oh, one of Mike's friends. Why didn't you say so? Well, here you are, go on in. Hey, behave yourself. (upbeat dance music) (background chatter) - Welcome to 1979. Pretty wild, huh man? - Yeah. - Isn't this too unreal? You know, if I had my act together. I would try to videotape this. Maybe get a grant from some anthropological society, retroactive male, urban, homosexual sex worthy, Southern California. I did get one grant which is enough to pay for the dorm though. Photographing my penis at different times of the day. You know like that French guy did in paintings of haystacks where the light shifted and changed around the course of one day. I mean, I figured haystacks, why not penises? - [Mike] Glad you're here. - [Party Goer] Wild party, huh? - [Kyle] Yeah. - Sam's got a lot of friends. They all pulled together to make this happen. One night blast from the past. Nice jacket. Fit right in here. - My god, that guy looks like my father. - Come here. I wanna ask you uh-- - For what? - About getting your nipple pierced, huh? - Ow. - It'd look really cool. - Well, if you think it's so cool, why don't you get yours pierced? - I don't wear jewelry but I think it's studly on the right guys I think. There's going to be somebody here piercing all night. I gotta go. I gotta go see about Sam's birthday surprise. I'll catch ya later. (background chatter) ♫ For he's a jolly good fellow ♫ For he's a jolly good fellow ♫ For he's a jolly good fellow ♫ Which nobody can deny (Upbeat dance music) (whooping) (cheering) - I hope you enjoy your present. I love you. - I love you, too. Thanks. (laughing) (cheering) - I remember dancing to this 15 years ago. - Yeah, it still sound the same? - Nah, but disco's bad. Here, have a hit. - What is it? - It's ecstasy. - I mean, I've been drinking champagne all night. - Come on, it's a party. - I don't, I don't like to mix my drugs. - You sound like Nancy Reagan. - Come on. I wanna get my nipple pierced. - One or both? - One. - Do you have any other piercings? - Just my ear. - Well, I can guarantee this is going to be a hell of a lot more intense than that. Let me see your nipples. (background chatter) Oh, these are great. Nice length and thickness. Now here's your basic surgical stainless steel ring. Clean your nipple and the ring with hibiclens betadine twice a day to prevent infection. Now any puss or discharge see a doctor immediately. Now the regular doctor's kinda skittish, I have a list of doctors wo are into the scene. And no playing with your nipple for six to eight weeks, understand? And don't let your nipple get dirty and don't let it come in contact with anybody else's body fluids. After that, you can work up to intense play gradually. Now it's gonna take six months for your body to heal itself. So be sure to eat right and take your vitamins. Now all my tools are heat and chemically sterilized, so there's no chance of an AIDS infection or an infection from any other blood borne disease. Are you HIV positive? - No, why? - Well, this could affect your immune system and I want you to be aware of the consequences. Now, just sign this release form and cash, check, or credit card for 50 bucks and we can get started. Oh, by the way, the $50 includes the stainless steel ring. My special party rate. - This is on me. - Oh, one other thing. Do you faint at the sight of blood? - No. - Well, the pain from this is going to be like something you've never felt before. But hey, that's half the fun. (laughing) - What about that ecstasy, homely. (screaming) (upbeat dance music) You like? - I like very much. - Yeah? I, shoot, mm. Ow. - Let's try something. Scoot up. Yeah? - Yeah. (laughs) Mike. What's that? Mike. Michael. What are you doing back there? - Just making this a little more interesting. - Oh, my god. I'm not sure this is a good idea. I've never done this before. - Shhh. I know you like it. (moans in pleasure) (moaning in pleasure) No, Mike, no. Mike, no, take these things off me. (sighs) - Kyle. What's the problem, huh? Vanilla sex is so boring. - [Kyle] Why? We've only had sex once before. If you're bored Mike then you're the one with the problem. (laughing) Gonna get you now. (moaning) (groaning) (slow piano music) - But is this really going to work. Are people really going to come? - Sure it is. We've known these people forever. Hi, baby. - Hi. - Hi. - Check it out. - Ew, that's nice. - My, ain't she butch. - Oh yeah, about last night. Thanks a lot. Where's Amanda? Is she okay. I mean, what happened to her? Where is she, is she okay? - Honey, things could've been a lot worse. Amanda was picked up for possession of a firearm without a permit. - Oh, it was just a little ole magnum. It's not like it was an Uzi or anything. That's exactly what I told the police but they didn't quite see things my way. - So I talked to Martine here and she's going to let us put on a dance tonight to raise Amanda's bail money. Would you read some of your poetry at the benefit tonight? - Actually I've never really read my poems in front of anyone before. - Honey, you have to put yourself out there. No matter how scary it is. And it is for Amanda. - I seen you writing in your notebooks and hon, I've seen living a lot too. You'll do fine. We've got to go in and straighten up some more details before, Save Amanda fete. - All right, you be good. We'll see you later. - Bye bye. - [Mike] You waiting for me? - [Young Man] Hey how are you doing? I need to give you my new number. This is my private line. Make sure you use it. - So are you going to dump me, Mike? - Where the hell did that come from? - So what about the guy that gave you his number on the patio yesterday? - You don't know he gave me his number. - Mike, you were talking to him again today. - Kyle, he's just a guy. - So what am I. Am I just a guy? - Kyle, what is it with you? We've only known each other 24 hours. I don't make a commitment to anybody for anything in 24 hours. Christ I should've stayed married. - You were married? - Yeah. - To a woman? - Yeah, to a woman. A girl really. We were in high school. It was a big mistake. - [Kyle] Mike, were you in love with her? [Scoffs] - I was stupid. She got pregnant and I decided I was going to do th honorable thing. The baby was born. It was a girl. Put it up for adoption. Her parents and my parents insisted on that. It's the only thing we ever agreed on. Once the baby was gone there was no reason to stay married so we got divorced. - Mike, you put your baby up for adoption? - What were we supposed to do? We were stupid high school kids. How were we supposed to take care of a baby? - Yeah but, think about the baby, Mike. Growing up in foster homes. Never knowing who her real parents are. - Sometimes foster parents are better than real ones, trust me. - Yeah, well, you should've kept the baby. - We didn't know what we were doing. It's not like today where they passed out condoms in class like candy. - Mike, it's not healthy to fuck around. - It's not the number of sex partners you have. It's the kind of sex you have. Kyle, you're 18. - Yeah. - You're still exploring. Are you trying to tell me that you're ready to make a commitment for the rest of your life? I mean, how do either of us know who we're going to meet today or tomorrow or next week or next year. Romance can be a lot of fun. Sooner or later reality rears its ugly head. - I'd like to try. - Try what, monogamy? Please take this a day at a time. - Mike. I'm going to be reading tonight at the cafe. It's a benefit for Amanda. - Amanda in trouble again? God, I admire her balls. - Would you like to come hear me read? (sighs) - I'll write a check for Amanda, but I told you I hate those things. - Mike, I'd like you to come. - I'll come after work and we'll go do something, okay? - Yeah, sure. (upbeat music) - [Kyle Over Phone] The benefit's for Amanda. She got busted for illegal possession of a firearms. - So the people you're hanging out with are carrying guns? - [Kyle Over Phone] Yeah, but just come. - And you're gonna be reading your own stuff? It's not like some dead persons poems? - No, they asked me, isn't that cool? - Yeah, that's very cool, but is that old guy you're seeing going to be there too? - [Kyle] No, he's not into that literary sort of stuff. - This is you reading your own stuff. He sounds like a really sensitive guy. - [Kyle] Ian, cut it out. I was thinking that, you know, maybe we should go out. - You want to go out? - Yeah, well, maybe it's time to head back West. - Well, right, about damn time. And I know just the place. (upbeat music) ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Da da da da, come back, daddy ♫ Da da da da ♫ Da da da da ♫ Back, back ♫ Da da da da ♫ Da da da da ♫ Yeah ♫ Da da da da ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Yeah ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ (Moaning) ♫ Yeah ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come, come, come, come ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy (Upbeat dance music) ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ Come back, daddy ♫ (Upbeat dance music) - This is, this is stupid. - Kyle. Kyle, why do you have to be so fucking weird? (upbeat music) - Embrace the world of flesh One taste was all it took Legs, thighs, breast, that's next. Such succulent meat. - Give it a rest, Kyle. He shows up he shows up. You said yourself, he hates this stuff. - Ah chickens, ah lovers I devoured you all. (applause) - Kyle. I hear you're reading tonight. And a little bird named Martine tells me this is your very first public reading. - Mm-Hmm, yeah, I'm a little nervous. - How marvelous. I remember my very first reading. - Oh Jack, he doesn't have anymore time for your stories. Kyle needs time to prepare. - Very well, and a word of advice, don't forget to breathe. (laughing) - God, the weirdest people talk to you in cafe's, Kyle. - Once again, I want to thank everybody for coming out to help spring Amanda from the pen. And because I always like to help out the local girls, here's a check for Amanda Sam. (applause) - Ladies and gentleman, after adding up the money collected at the door and for the generous check from Martine and the staff, I'm happy to announce we have enough money to get Amanda out of jail, again. (applause) Amanda sends her love and a big sloppy kiss to each and every one of you. We're sending someone now to get her out of the pig pen. Now we still got lots more entertainment coming your way. Including someone who's going to read for the very first time ever. Kyle, get your butt up here girlfriend and give us a word. - He's just a little bit shy. (applause) - Now Kyle here is a virgin to reading so please, you bitches, be gentle. - [Kyle] And I wanted to dedicate this to someone, but the person's not here so, anyways, this is from my, it's called, Leather Jacket Love Story. - Breathe. - Shhh. - In the morning after you leave, I lie down again. The sheets warm with your aroma. My clock ticks off the seconds, echoes your footfalls down the stairs. Towels drip with your sweat. The cereal bowl rings with your touch. After the front door closes, the scent of your leather jacket lingers behind. I inhale the smell. Inhale you. I remember the ridges of your muscles. The wind tight in our hair as we sail Silver Lake on our motorcycle. The salt taste of your lips crashing like waves over your teeth. The jungle of your skin. The knots of our limbs as they twined around each other catching us in a net of our flesh, as the night grew. Your touch remembers its careful way, over the map of my body. I get up and put on, my own leather jacket. Fall back on the bed, into your warmth. Inhale the smell. Inhale you. Inhale us. Thank you. (applause) - Everybody, thanks for coming tonight. - I know what you want, honey. One pinhead special. And you? - [Mike] Hi. Hi. - Hi. - Looks like the benefits a big hit. - Yeah, just sent someone off to get Amanda. - Poem go over well? - Yeah, I was surprised. - Why? It was a good poem. - You heard it? - Yeah. And I-- - What? - Sorry I was a little late getting here. - What? - I said I was sorry-- - Ah ah. That's one. - Three strikes and I'm out. - Of course not. - [Charella] Okay, okay, while we're waiting for Amanda to get here, I've got a oke to tell you. - [Madge] Oh no. - [Charella] How many people does it take to make a gay romance? - [Madge] That depends. How many gay people are in the room? (laughter) Badum bump. - Don't step over our lines, honey. - Then don't be telling jokes as old as you. - Oh, who's talking old, you're ancient, missy. - Listen, if this benefit had been you-- - Oh, no, no, no, no, quiet missy. You know, when Amanda gets here you can pack your bags. (background chatter) ♫ Oh yeah ♫ Baby, you look so sexy ♫ With that piece of leather on ♫ And I'm so cold and lonely ♫ Maybe you could stay here til dawn ♫ When the sun comes out ♫ And I might thaw out ♫ From the warmth of your loving arms ♫ It's so cold I can't breathe ♫ So give me some relief ♫ In return I'll show you my magic charms ♫ Now asking is a bit too much ♫ Cause I'm a bit too shy ♫ But with my flirtatious touch ♫ I'm just gonna say hi ♫ Give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Let me put it on ♫ It's much too cold out here my dear ♫ So stay with me til dawn ♫ Oh, give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Let me slip it on ♫ I'll give it back in the morning ♫ If you stick around til dawn ♫ Give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Let me put it on ♫ Give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Stick around til dawn ♫ Cause I'm looking for a leather jacket love story ♫ A leather jacket love ♫ Yeah, I'm looking for a leather jacket love story ♫ Leather jacket lover ♫ Give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Leather jacket, yeah ♫ Give me that leather jacket, baby ♫ Leather jacket, yeah