Transcript for Popstar Private Eye (2007) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (tense, funky music) (zipping) (clicking) (fist thudding) (zipping) ♪ She tops the chart ♪ ♪ She sings the best ♪ ♪ The press will never let her rest ♪ ♪ She's famous ♪ ♪ She's famous ♪ ♪ But this is just a face we see ♪ ♪ She has one more identity ♪ ♪ But hush ♪ (shushing) ♪ Leather boots and bustier ♪ ♪ Is what she wears to get her way ♪ ♪ She's hot ♪ ♪ She's hot ♪ ♪ Fighting crime and villainy ♪ ♪ To save the music industry ♪ ♪ She's tough ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ She has the boobs ♪ ♪ And the brains of a queen ♪ ♪ She's every man's dream ♪ ♪ And when you look in her eyes ♪ ♪ You're hypnotized ♪ ♪ Karate and tae kwon do ♪ ♪ She'll kick your ass before you know what hit ya ♪ (woman shouting ♪ She's wicked cool and that's a fact ♪ ♪ So evildoers watch your back ♪ ♪ She'll get you ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ (upbeat pop music) ♪ Numero uno lover ♪ ♪ You better run for come ♪ - This Lance Canyon song is so cool! - I know, totally. - (laughs) Oh no, look who's heading this way. - [Girls] Vera. - Hey guys. - I think there's something wrong with my ears. I could swear that nerdy Vera was trying to talk to us. - Her breath always smells like bacon bits. (laughing) (gasping) - I was just going to ask you guys what you're listening to. - We're listening to Lance Canyon, he's the coolest singer out now. - No, he's not. Sexina is the coolest singer out there. - How would you know what's cool? - Yeah, you suck. Beat it porkchop! (laughing) (dramatic music) - Stop laughing at me! - Sexina, I'm glad you're here. I need to talk to you. - If it's about the incident in the limo, I can explain. - We have bigger problems than that. - What? - I just watched an advance copy of the new Lance Canyon video, and it is hot. - How hot? - Piping hot. - That hot? - Hotter than my sweaty balls. - I want to see it. (wood thudding) - Lance Canyon, you are accused of the crime of being totally awesome. How do you plead? - Guilty. - In that case, I'm giving you a life sentence to party! (upbeat music) Yeah! Lance, you're sexy for life! - Don't you want to see the rest of it? - I think I've seen enough. - Sexina, I don't think you realize the impact this video's gonna have. Every teenager in the country is going to want to buy his album. If you're not careful, you could become yesterday's news. - You said the same thing two years ago about Sir-Stabs-A-Lot, and his last album hardly made the top 20. Don't worry. Lance Canyon, he'll come and go. - Yeah, but I have a feeling that when Lance comes, he'll come with the thunder. (thunder roaring) - Yes, I am so close to perfecting my ultimate creation. I must make sure that this time it doesn't fall into the wrong hands. Who are you? This is private property. - Don't act stupid, professor! How long did you think you can hide from us? - I see. I'll tell you the same thing I told your boss. I quit. - You can't quit! The boss needs you. And I'm here to take you with me. - Never. Now, leave so that I can finish my work. (dramatic music) - So, this must be your daughter. - Put that down! - She looks barely legal. She could have a long life. Of course, that's if you cooperate. - Oh, dear. - [Girls] Hi Vera! - Hello. - Don't be scared, Vera. We just wanted to know if you wanted to have some breakfast with us. - Really? - We feel really bad about yesterday. - And we want to make it up to you. - Okay. I would love to have breakfast with you guys. - I hope you like eggs! (laughing) (shrieking) (crying) (sad music) - Why, oh, why? (laughing) - That was such a great idea, Crystal. - That was so funny! - Oh, what can I say? I'm beautiful and smart. (laughs) - [Girls] You so are! - So Sal, how's it going with the contest I asked you to set up? - Oh yeah, remind me about that again. - The one where I perform for free at a high school. - Why would you want to do that? - Come on. Can you do it or not? - Relax, the posters should be at all the high schools around the country today. - Oh. (phone ringing) - Hello? - Sexina, it's Sara, I need to talk to you. - Okay, one sec. - Hey, Sal, do you mind giving me a second alone? - Sure. - Thanks. (tense music) - Okay Sara, what's up? - Have you ever heard of a Professor Van Bunson? - Yeah, he was the lead singer in the Van Bunson trio in the '60s, and then he just gave up music to pursue science. Actually, I think he's the world's leading scientist in robotics now. - That's him. His daughter just called me. He's missing. She wants us to track him down. - Alright, I'm on it. You get as much information you can from Van Bunson's daughter, and I'll talk to my informants, okay? I'll be in touch. - By the way, what are you wearing right now? - Why do you want to know that? - Just curious. - Okay. (cheerful, dramatic music) - Hope you're ready for the big game against Madison. - I'm going to give 120% coach. - Atta'boy. (grunting) - Coach, I got a math test in a few minutes. I've gotta go look over my notes. - Math, huh? Atta'boy. - Coach, I really can't talk right now. - Alright, Zach, I'll see you at practice tomorrow. - [Zach] Alright, Coach. - Atta'boy. (metal thudding) - Hey honey. Where's my kiss before third period? - I got it right here, beautiful. (lips smacking) - God, ugh. I hate that boney bitch. I would love to show her up. (sighs) How? (dreamy music) It says here that the person who writes the best essay and gets the most signatures from other students will get to see Sexina perform live at their school. And get to spend an entire day with her! (sighs) This is it! If I get Sexina to sing here everyone will like me. (zipping) (tense, jazzy music) (lighter clicking) - What's up, Jay? - Oh, man. Every time you come around you need something from me. - What are you complaining about? You know I pay you. - You want a hit off this? - No, you know I don't smoke. - That's a damn shame 'cause this some good shit. This stuff could knock Tommy Chong out for a week. - Come on, enough small talk. Let's get down to business, I need some information. - You're all business, alright. Let's get to it. - I'm looking for a missing scientist. Professor Van Bunson, have you ever heard of him? - No, what's he look like? - Here, here's a picture. - Yeah, I have seen this dude before. My memory's not so great on account of I'm such a pothead and all, but... Oh yeah, it was over at Glitz Records. I was over there selling some he rb to Lance Canyon, and, uh. - Wait, was the professor doing at Glitz Records? - He was working. He's got his own office and everything. That's all I know. - Alright. Thanks for the info. - Stay gold. - See you later, Jay. (tense music) (grunting) - [Boss] Oh, be gentle, don't damage the goods. Good, we have you back in our grasp once again. Back where you belong, at Glitz Records. - Please, listen to reason. What you've been doing is wrong. - [Boss] I don't care about that, all I care about is money and boy bands. Try to not to think about it morally, numb nuts. Just do what I tell you. You know who will be punished if you don't. - I'm only doing this to protect my daughter. - [Boss] Whatever. As long as you do it. - I have one more thing to say. That Lance Canyon album is really hot. - [Boss] Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, Lance is pretty hot. (laughs) I mean, his album's pretty hot, but I'd like to see hotter. It is your genius that will make me the richest CEO in the music industry, and no one can stop me. - So how often do you look at yourself in the mirror? - Oh, not often, around 40 hours a week. - Why do you do this? - I like to look at myself. You know, sometimes I wonder what it would be like to be in someone else's body, so I know how it feels to have sex with me. - Your song, You Need That Extra Deep Love got you in a lot of trouble with the church groups because the way you described your penis. - Look, I don't understand why they're mad. I mean, my penis was touched by God. (chuckles) They should just worship it. - Your album is really, really hot right now. Do you think it will outsell Sexina's latest album? - Look, I think it's my destiny to outsell that album. I mean, Sexina was pretty good in her day, but it's time to move on. People are ready for the next big thing and, (chuckles) that would be me. (chuckling) - Hey Lance, baby. - Hey, What's Your Name. (upbeat blues guitar music) - Hey Stevie, how you doin'? - Maude, it's great to see you. - (shushing) Your voice. I don't want anyone to know my real name. - Oh, maybe now you're Sexina the famous pop star, but to me you'll always be Maude Jenkins, the little girl I used to bounce on my knee. - I'm sorry I don't come and see you anymore Stevie, just after my dad died I've just gotten so famous I hardly have time for anything else. - Your father would be proud of your success. I wish he was here to see it. - Me too. You know, he's the one that deserves all the success I have. He was one of the best blues guitar players in the world, until the record company ripped him off. In all those years of playing music and he ended up penniless. That's why I'm here doing what I'm doing. Stopping corruption and evil in the music industry. - And you're doing a great job. It's good to know that there's someone like you sticking it to those fat cats. (chuckling) I know that you're a hard chick, but I worry about you. I promised your dad that I would look after you. Did he ever tell you how we ended up raising you? - Yeah, he told me all about how my parents were eaten by cannibals. - (laughs) That's not the truth. He told you that to make you feel better. You want to hear the real story? Well, one night he was walking home after a show. (humming) (baby crying) - Was that a baby? (baby crying) What you doing in there baby? (retching) (spitting) (baby crying) I'm sorry, baby. I promise I won't do that again. I wonder what happened to your parents? You really are beautiful. Guess what? You are coming home with me tonight, little mama. - And from that day on he's raised you like you're his own daughter. - Why didn't he ever tell me that? - He'd rather have you think that your parents were eaten by cannibals rather than know that they tossed you in the trash. He told you that because he loved you. - (sighs) Anyway, Stevie, I need your help, okay? I'm looking for a missing scientist whose name is Professor Van Bunson. He used to work at Glitz Records. Do you know anyone who works there? - I know somebody who works at Glitz. I'll have him call Sara, and she can make an appointment. - Thank you, Stevie! Thank you for everything. - It's no problem. I'd do anything for Maude. - What is she doing? - Hey, would you sign this list to get Sexina to sing at our school? - [Girl In Blue] Yeah, sure, that sounds cool! - What a lame attempt to get people to like her. - [Vera] Thanks. - [Girl In Blue] No problem. - How pathetic. - I know, really. - Hey beautiful. - Hey gorgeous. - Oh, cool, that girl is trying to get Sexina to come here, I'm gonna go sign up. - Zach, I need you to take my books to my remedial math class. - Sure. - Now. - Anything for you. (dramatic music) - I want you to know that we have our best person on the case. She is tough, smart, and very sexy. She also the coolest walk and a great smile. (sighs) Anyway, we are very dedicated to finding your father. - It feels so good to hear that. The police haven't been much help. - Were you aware that your father used to work for Glitz Records? - I know he was working on a secret project, but he wouldn't tell me for whom. Isn't Lance Canyon on Glitz Records? - Yes, he is. - His album is really hot. - Yes, very hot. Does your father have any enemies that you're aware of? - He's a very sweet man. Weird and nerdy, but sweet. I can't imagine anyone hating him. - We think he might have been kidnapped by someone who wants to get their hands on his secret experiments. (mysterious music) (zipping) - (gasps) Oh my God, Jay, are you alright? (dramatic music) (gasping) - It is unfortunate for you that you're here. I cannot let you leave alive. - If anyone's going to die here today, it's going to be you. - Women are not meant to fight. They're meant to cook my food and massage my feet. - Oh, I'm going to fuck you up twice as hard for that statement. - You cannot defeat me. I'm a martial arts master. (tense Asian music) (glass shattering) (grunting) (intense music) - Alright, tough guy, I need to know who sent you. - No, I won't tell you! - Wrong answer! - You will never know! (groaning) - Feel like talking yet? I can break your balls for hours. - Okay, I was working for Glitz Records. - I need names! - I would rather die than talk. I will be dead in one second. - Damn it! Poisoned himself. (tense music) - [Boss] So, professor, how's our little project coming along? - It will be finished in a few days. I must admit, it is my best work. - [Boss] Good, we're ahead of schedule for once, and I'm looking for some sexy results. The world will be amazed when they see what we've done. I will rule the music industry thanks to your newest and greatest achievement. No one will be able to oppose me. (upbeat music) (audience applauds) - In case you've just joined us, I am talking to the pop music sensation Sexina. (audience cheering and applauding) So, I hear you're doing a big contest. Can you tell me a little about it? - Sure, Lauren. Well, it's a contest for high school students. - Mm? - The winner gets to spend the day with me, and then I perform for free at their high school. - I think that's terrific. I always think it's good to give something back to the fans. Don't you agree? - [Crowd] Yes! (audience cheering and applauding) - Sexina, Lance Canyon's album is climbing the charts. Some people think that he's gonna outsell your last album. How do you feel about that? - I'm fine with it. I really think there's plenty of room in pop music for more than one performer. - [Crowd] Aww. - I have to ask you this, because everyone wants to know. Are you seeing anybody? - [Crowd] Ooh! - No, I'm not. - [Crowd] Oh. - Really? Such a beautiful girl with no boyfriend. - Well, I don't really have time to go out and meet men, I'm always working. - That's sad. - [Crowd] Oh. - Anyway, it's time to take a call from one of your biggest fans. Hello, you're on the air. - Sexina, I think you are so beautiful. My question is would you ever kiss a girl? (crowd gasps) - Sara, is that you? (phone clicking) (dial tone ringing) - Well. You really are a great talent, th anks for being on the show. - Thanks for having me. - Our next guest is a man. (audience jeering) But he's an author who wrote a bo ok about how much he loves his wife. - [Crowd] Aww. - But he loves watching football. (audience jeering) - But he loves giving foot massages. - [Crowd] Whew! - But he's cheap with money! (audience groans) We'll have him next after this commercial break. (upbeat music) - [Man] We're clear! - I can hardly believe that such a beautiful girl doesn't have a boyfriend. - I know, it's just hard for me to find a man that really does it for me, you know? Someone that isn't intimidated by my strength and my intelligence, and really has the same interests. It's hard. - I know just the guy for you. He is a friend of my husband and the two of you could hit it off. - Thanks Lauren, I appreciate it, but you know, I just don't have the time right now. I'm working on a huge case, record, and I'm just too busy. - I am Lauren, and I don't take no for an answer. - [Man] And we're back in five, four. (slow jazz music) - So, Ralph, what do you do for a living? - I'm an agent. I represent Tom, Julia, the Pitt. All the big names, you know. - Cool, do you like it? - I have two summer homes, three Bentleys. What's not to like? - I asked you if you like your job, not if you like the money. - Isn't that the same thing? (sighs) - Do you listen to music? - No, I don't listen to music. - You don't? I thought everyone listened to music. - Not me. I like talk radio. - Well, music is my life. - Good for you. - Hey, Sexina, what are you doing here? - Hey Sara, I'm on a blind date. This is Ralph. - Yeah, hi Ralph. Um, so, I didn't know you were dating. - I'm not really, this is just something Lauren set up. - Lauren, huh? - Uh, Sara, do you know where the bathroom is? - Yeah, it's at the back of the restaurant on the left. - Thanks, excuse me a second, Ralph. - No problem, I'm not going anywhere. - So, Ralph, is it? - Yeah. - Yeah. Um, I don't think you want to date Sexina. - Why not, she's hot? - Yes, she is hot, but she also has herpes. - Really? - Yes really, and not just regular herpes, we're talking hardcore, raging herpes. - Wow, thanks for telling me. - No problem. (patrons chattering) - Sorry about that. So, are you ready to order? - Actually, something came up, very important, and I'm going to have to go. - You can be honest with me Ralph. You're not my type either, I know it's not working out. - I'm not your type? Who are you to talk? - What's that supposed to mean? - You can keep your herpes! - What? What the hell does that mean? - I received an invitation for you to go to Lance Canyon's big party tonight. I think you should go. You'll get a lot of free publicity there. - Sounds good, what time? - Uh, it says get there at eight, so I would arrive about midnight. (upbeat jazzy music) (crowd chattering) - Do you think I'll get to beat somebody up tonight? - We're here to have fun Chainsaw, not to beat people up. - Beating people up is fun. (chuckling) - Well, well, Sexina, glad to see you could make it. - I wouldn't miss this party, Lance. Especially when your album's so hot. - Oh, what can I say? I got the goods. - Such modesty. - (chuckles) So um, who's your friend? - The name's Chainsaw. - He's my bodyguard. - Well, make sure you keep him on a leash. (growling) - Relax, Chainsaw, relax. And uh, who's your friend? - Oh, her name is not important. What's important, she's a first rate skank. (giggling) - You really think I'm first rate? - Oh, yes baby, yes you are. (speaks foreign language) - Oh, you are so sweet. (laughing) - And the Bush twins are here tonight, have you ever met them before? - No, I haven't. - Oh girl, you should. The two are magnificent whores. (snorting) - Anyway, Lance, um, how do you like working at Glitz Re cords? - It's the best record label in the world, what's not to like? Nah, I'm sorry guys, but I must attend to my other guests. (laughing) - Just say the word and I'll give him the beating of his life. - Yeah, really. That's alright Chainsaw, it's not necessary. Didn't Lance Canyon do a public service announcement against drugs? - Yes he did. I remember the slogan. Lance don't need weed to succeed. (sighing) Pee-ew! - What a scumbag. - Hey, everybody. Let's have a round of applause for the man who's throwing this great party tonight. Lance Canyon! (cheering and applauding) Share some words with the good people. - I want to thank you all for attending my party. Hey, there's still plenty of weed, cocaine, and ecstasy for everyone. As well as heroin, crystal meth, horse tranquilizers, vicodin, xanax, modern igloo, yellow jackets, black beauties. You guys name it, and we got it. (laughing) - [Man] Yo, I love this guy, he's awesome. - You know Chainsaw, as much as I can't stand the guy, he is kind of cute. - Oh, I hate cute. - Now, I want you all to give a big, big round of applause for another big star that's in the house tonight. The one and only Sexina. (applauding) Sexina, I am so glad that I can tell you, and everyone else here the great news. My brand new album has just outsold yours. (applauding) I am now the biggest star in pop music. (laughing) - Chainsaw, I've had enough. Let's get out of here. - And, fellas, I'm going to do your ladies tonight. (laughing) - Pick me, Lance! - Me first! - Thank you! - Hey. I wanted to sign your list. - Great, umm. (tense music) Here you go. - I'm so glad you're doing this. I am such a big Sexina fan. - So am I. - I've seen you around. What's your name? - I'm Vera. - My name's Zach. - I know. (laughs) You're quarterback of the football team. - I hope you don't think I'm some dumb jock. - No, I don't think that at all! - That's good to hear. Everyone thinks I'm this big football hero, which is fine and everything, but, I wonder if anyone will ever know that I have this fondness for French poetry, or how passionate I am about animal rights. - I think it's great to have lots of interests. - Thanks. You know Vera, you're pretty cool. - I think you're pretty cool too. - I'll see you around. - See you around, Zach. - Zach, you've been working out, huh? Atta'boy. - Vera like, mm. - Mm, Coach like. (tense music) - [Boss] Good, you're here, have a seat. - You needed to see me? - [Boss] Yes, I have a job for you. - What is it? - [Boss] I want you to take care of the man we hired to kidnap Van Bunson. - What do you mean, take care of him? - [Boss] Oh, don't act so naive, Lance. I want you to kill him. - Hey, hey, hold on, alright? Hey, I'm a musician, not a killer. - [Boss] You'll be anything I want you to be. - I won't do it. - [Boss] Lance, Lance, testicle brains, don't forget that I'm the one who signs your checks. I am the one who owns your houses and your cars, and I can make those things go away. And if those things go away, the women will go away too. - Hey, hey, hey! Not the women, not the women. Fine, I'll do it, but I don't like it. - Hey, uh, Lance. Thanks for having me over. - Uh, yeah, cool man. Hey, you want something to drink? - Yeah, sure, I'll have a drink, thanks. - Huh, yeah, yeah, cool man. Um, do you know by any chance why you're here? - No, the boss just told me to come over. - Oh, well, you did such a good job kidnapping Van Bunson that he asked me to take care of you, man. - Really? - [Lance] Yeah. - We going to get some hookers or something? (laughs) - (chuckles) Well, not exactly. - No hookers? - Not today. (grunting) (dramatic music) (coughing) (dramatic music) - Would you stop strangling me? (coughing) (dramatic music) How many times are you going to strangle me? - I thought you'd be dead by now! - Well, I'm not. (dramatic music) (heavy breathing) (coughing) (dramatic music) - Well, why didn't you use that in the first place? - Sorry man, I'm new at this. (gun firing) (upbeat pop music) ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Dangerous Sexina ♪ ♪ Dangerous ♪ ♪ Dangerous Sexina ♪ ♪ Undercover ♪ - Oh, cut! ♪ Sexina ♪ - Sal, come on, I can't do this. - What's the matter? It's going so well. - You think this is going well? This video is fucking stupid. - Hey, listen, watch your language in front of the Jesus, okay? - That's another thing. Why is Jesus in my video? - 'Cause Jesus is hot right now. Jesus sells. - (sighs) But it makes no sense why he's on the beach with me. - He's just doing a couple rap verses for your video. - I don't want a rapping Jesus in my video! - Why not? Listen, people love rap. People love Jesus. Put the two together, and I smell a hit. - I smell your bullshit. - Alright, just listen to the guy, alright? Come here. (sighing) - Do that rap part. - Come on! ♪ Yo, everywhere I go ♪ ♪ The people love me ♪ ♪ I'm the dopest of them all ♪ ♪ I'm the rapping JC. ♪ - Sal. Jesus doesn't rap. Jesus doesn't build a sand castle, and Jesus would never, ever wear a thong. This video is so over, I'm leaving! - Sexina, wait! - Who the hell does she think she is? I'm Jesus Christ, bitch! (phone ringing) (loud sipping) - Hello? - Hey Sara, it's Stevie. - Hey Stevie, what can I do for ya ? - Actually, it's more like what I can do for you. I know a guy who works down at Glitz Records, and he's got some information he'd like to share with you and Sexina. For a price of course. - That's great news. I'll let her know right away. Thanks so much, Stevie. - Just remember to tell her to meet him at Rosco's Chicken Pit, tomorrow at noon. She'll recognize him because he's the guy with the eye patch. (dreamy music) (upbeat rock music) - So you the man I'm supposed to meet? - Yes, I am. I wasn't expecting such a beautiful woman. - Enough with the flattery. I came here because I was told you could give me what I need. Let's get down to it. - Wow, you move really fast. Don't you think we should slow down a little bit. I mean, get to know each other fi rst. - Why do you want to get to know each other first? - Because it's the polite thing to do. - You know what I'm here for. Are you going to give it to me or not? - Of course I'm going to give it to you. (chuckles) I can't wait to give it to you. Where do you want to do it? I mean, we could go to a hotel or we could go to your place. We can't go to my place, because I still live with my parents. - Why do you want to go somewhere else? Why can't we just do it right here? - You want to do it right here? - Yeah. I want to do it right here. - Are you sure? - Yeah, I'm sure. Come on, enough with the small talk. Let's get down to business. - Do you want me to show you what I've got? - Do you have something to show me? - Oh yeah. (chuckles) Oh yeah, I've got something to show you. Do you want to see it? - Yeah, I want to see it. - Yeah? - Yeah. - Right now? - Right here, right now. Come on, show me what you got. - Okay, alright. - Wait, what are you doing? No, what, ugh! Ugh, what are you doing? - I'm giving you what you want. - I don't want that. - Hey, over here. - Who the hell are you? - Aren't you Debbie, my blind date? - No! - Then where's my date? - Are you Phil? - Yeah, I am, are you Debbie? - You're sick, and tiny. (laughing) - I'm a grower, not a shower. Hey, wait! (tense music) - So much for being inconspicuous. - Alright, so what have you got for me? - First things first. Where's the money? - What happened to your eye? - Nothing. I just wear this to look cool for the ladies. - Okay. So what do you know? - I saw the professor at Glitz Records. He came out of the president's office. - What do you think they're using him for? - Cyborg robots. - Why on earth would they want him for that? - I don't know, that's up to you to find out. - Do you think Lance Canyon is involved? - Lance is definitely involved. He's tight with the boss, and he has access to the professor. Also, his album is really, really-- - If you say really hot, I will break your nose. - Okay, relax. I guess you're not a Lance Canyon fan. - Have you ever actually seen the president of Glitz Records? - No, he never leaves his penthouse office. - That's so strange. Why would a CEO of a major record label keep such a low profile? - I don't know, but only a select few have actually seen him. He moves in the shadows. - It's very suspicious. (tense music) I broke into Lance Canyon's house looking for some more clues. Since he is Glitz Record's golden boy, I wanted to know how involved he's been in Van Bunson's kidnapping, and what the hell this is all about! (dramatic music) (door creaking) - Hm. I guess I'm hearing things. - [Woman] Lance, come back to bed! - Okay, but I hope you're ready for that all-you-can-eat Lance buffet. (tense music) - Hey Vera. How's the contest going? - Well I got all the signatures I need. - That's great news. - Yeah, except now I have to write an essay about myself, and I'm having a hard time with it. I mean, how much can a person write about Paula Abdul and unicorns? - Yeah, it's hard to look deep down inside yourself. I know it is for me, but you're a really cool and smart person. I'm sure you'll be able to write a great essay. - Thanks, Zach. - No problem. (sighing) I have to go. I almost forgot, I have to carry Crystal's books to her remedial English class. See you later. (dreamy music) - I know exactly what I'm going to write my essay about. I'm a student at Britney High School. I'm what most people would describe as a loser. I don't drink or smoke. I am not a beautiful cheerleader. I don't have any friends. Actually, I spend most of my time learning and trying to get into a good college. There's this popular girl named Crystal that always makes fun of me. She calls me names like fatty and lard-ass. I really hate the way she and her friends treat me. There's also this boy I really like. His name is Zach. I think he could fall in love with me, but he's dating that total bitch Crystal. Please pick me as the winner so I can teach that snobby bitch and her friends a lesson. Oh, and I really want to see Zach naked. And have sex with him. - I think we found our winner. (tense music) - I have accomplished wh at you asked of me. - [Boss] Very good, we're ahead of schedule. - Lance, listen to me. You must not be a part of this diabolical scheme. - Sorry professor, but I care about money and women. (chuckles) And you offer me neither. Hey boss, I've got to leave, man. I've got to meet Paris in ten minutes. I've got some boning to do. (groaning) - Please, I beg you. Don't do this-- - [Boss] Enough! Do I have to remind you what I'm capable of? - Here they are. (dramatic music) I call them Top That. They are the ultimate in cyborg technology. You can program them to sing, dance, act, or speak in any way you want them to. Never again will you have to find real human beings to mold into stars. They will follow your every command, and learn a song or a dance move with the flick of a switch. They are the ultimate pop group. - Oh, you've really outdone yourself, professor. Tell me about each member of the group. - Dustin is the young, cute one. Then there's Jake, he's a bad boy. The one with the dreadlocks is G-Dog, he loves reggae, so you know he's down. Then there's Anarchy Al, he's a punk rocker who hates authority figures. - [Boss] Mm, they look yummy. Especially that Dustin. I want to see them in action. - Okay boys. Hit it. (upbeat pop music) ♪ My love for you is so deep ♪ ♪ It's deeper than the deep blue sea ♪ ♪ Ooh baby do you understand ♪ ♪ That you and me equals we ♪ ♪ We, we, we ♪ ♪ No one can stop the two of us ♪ ♪ We, we, we ♪ ♪ In you girl, I do trust ♪ ♪ We, we, we ♪ ♪ We can listen to punk on the school bus ♪ ♪ We, we, we ♪ ♪ You and me equals we ♪ - Word to life, boo. - [Boss] Oh, they're perfect. Especially Dustin. Everyone from teenage girls to horny Catholic priests will love them. I'll start informing the press about them right away. The world has been craving a group like Top That. More than crack. - Good God, what have I done? (dramatic music) (dreamy music) - Zach! What are you doing? - Oh, nothing. - Tell me how beautiful I am. - You're the most beautiful girl in the world - You're right. I am the most beautiful girl in the world. - I think I'm going to be sick. - I just decided that I'm going to let you take me out to an expensive dinner tonight. - I don't have the money for that, maybe next week. I have an idea. Let's make a picnic basket and eat underneath the stars. - (sighs) I don't think so. Find a way to get the money and pick me up at seven. Okay, toodles. (upbeat dance music) - Hey, what's up everybody? Welcome to Cool TV. I'm your host Onski, and today I'm going to introduce to you the next big thing in pop music. From the people that brought you Lance Canyon comes this amazing new group, Top That! Yeah! (audience cheering) I want to introduce you first to the members. Dustin. - I'm just a sensitive guy who's looking for the right girl to give my love to. - Aw, what a sweetie! And next, we have Jake. - You girls, you don't want to get too close to me, 'cause I'm a heartbreaker. - Wicked man, yeah. Yo, yo, yo, give it up for G-Dog! - Ya mon, I like smokin' the trees and reggae beats. - Whoa. And finally, Anarchy Al. - I don't give a shit about you, or this fuckin' show. - Yeah! This is it, the guys of Top That. We here at Cool TV think th ey're totally crunk. In fact, they crunked in at a 10 on our crunk meter. So tune in tomorrow for the world premiere of their crunktastic new video, Love on the Deep End. - Oh my God! That group is going to be the biggest thing in musical history. We need to do some damage control, quick. We have to make sure that you're twice as cool as Top That. - But there's something strange about them. I can't put my finger on it, though. - All I know is those guys could put us out of business. - Anyway, I'd rather talk about the contest. I picked a winner, her name is Vera, and she goes to Britney High. - Great, I'll inform the school. - Okay, thanks. - Sexina, you're going to have to face Top That eventually. They're sexy and they know it, and that's a lethal combination. - Don't worry, everything will be fine. Top That has got nothing on me. (dramatic music) - [Zach] Hey Vera. - You probably think that note was pretty lame. - No, actually, I thought it was pretty sweet. - Where's the but? - But I have a girlfriend, so I can't date anyone. - Can't you just be honest and tell me you don't want to date me because you don't find me attractive. - Vera, that's not true, I do find you attractive. I just happen to be in a committed relationship. I really enjoy your company, and I want us to be friends. - Okay, that sounds cool. We can be friends. - Good. I have to go. I volunteer at this animal shelter. I think of all those cute little animals that need my help. (sighs) It just tears me apart inside. I've gotta go. See you later. - Later, Zach. (sigh) Friends, my ass. I'm gonna get me a piece of that sweet booty. (upbeat blues rock music) - I'm really glad to see you're still in one piece. - Come on, I'm a tough chick, you know that. - I know. I've got a bad feeling about this case. I think you're in a little over your head. - I know, but I can't quit now. - I knew you'd say that. - I got really good information from your guy at Glitz Records, thank you for arranging that. - I'm glad I could help. Do you remember when me and your dad tried to get you to listen to some Robert Johnson, but all you cared about was Madonna? (laughing) - He would get so mad at me. I wish he was here with us right now. - Me too. Can I get you a beer? - No, no, no, I've got to go, thank you. - Oh, I understand. You're a busy woman. (dramatic music) Please, consider giving up this case. I don't want anything happening to you. - [Sexina] I'll be fine. - Maude, down! (dramatic music) - Not you Stevie! (dramatic, funky music) (gasping) (grunting) (bear roaring) (groaning) - No, bear! Stop, please! I have great respect for your kind. I give thousands of dollars to Save the Bears every year, please stop attacking that man, I need to get information from him. (roaring) No, please! (screaming) Step away from my witness! This bear is killing my witness! - Mom, you should knock before you come into my room. - I'm sorry honey, I got so excited I forgot. - What is it, mom? - There's a boy here to see you. - What? - And he's cute. - Who is it? - His name is Zach. - Zach? Is here now, in my house? - Yes! I'm going to send him right up. - Oh, just don't embarrass me. - Here you go Zach, this is Vera's room. - Thanks. Hey Vera. - Hi. - Well, I'll just leave you two alone. - She's great, my mom is the same way. - Have a seat. - Well, I came by because we have this big math test tomorrow, and I thought maybe you might be able to help me study? - Yeah, of course. - Oh, I didn't know you were into French poetry! - Yeah, I love it. - That is so cool! - Yeah. I have to go downstairs and get my math book. - Oh, do you have a calculator I could borrow? - Oh sure, there should be one in my desk. - Thanks. (laughing) (buzzing) - Hey Zach, atta'boy. (gasping) (sighing) - I brought you my, vibrator! Soda pop? Vera? (phone ringing) - Hello? - Sara, it's me. Did you get the results of the fingerprints? - They belong to a guy named Richard Flack. He did five years at San Quentin for kidnapping. - I knew it. He kidnapped professor Van Bunson for Glitz Records, and then they had him killed so he wouldn't talk. The president of Glitz Records must be the one that's pulling all the strings. Sara, an assassin just tried to kill me. - Oh no, Sexina, are you alright? - I'm fine, but the assassin's dead. He got mauled by a bear before I could get any information out of him. - Fucking bears! - Sara, he killed Stevie. - Oh my God, Sexina. I'm so sorry. But listen, we have to act fast. Van Bunson's daughter is getting worried that we're not going to find her father. - I know, I have to come up with a plan. I need to meet with the contest winner today, but I'll call you after that. - Should we inform the police? - Don't say anything, we have to handle this ourselves. They could be on the Glitz Record payroll. Just tell Rachel we're very close to getting her father back, okay? - Be careful. I don't know what I would do if anything happened to that hot body of yours. - Congratulations, Vera! - Congratulations for what? - Didn't you hear? They just announced it in the cafeteria. - I never eat in the cafeteria. - You won the Sexina contest. - Really? - Yes, and she's coming here this afternoon to meet you. - That rules! - Oh, I can't believe that total pig Vera is talking to your man, Crystal. - Yeah, she better check herself. - Looks like I have to teach bacon bits a lesson. (grunting) - I can't believe I'm going to get to meet Sexina. - I knew you could do it. - Zach, what are you doing? - Oh, I'm just talking to Vera. You know her, right? - Yeah, I know her, but I don't actually talk to her. - Why not? - 'Cause she's a loser! - [Girls] Duh. - Hey, that's mean. - Don't be stupid, Zach. You know she's pathetic. Why do you think she sits out here for lunch every day? Because nobody likes her. - I'm sorry about this, Vera. She's totally out of line. - It's okay, I'm used to it. She talks to me like this every day. - Is that true? Answer me, is that true? - Of course it's true. I mean, just look at her. - I think she's pretty. - [Girls] What? - Are you serious? She's so ugly! - Right now, you look like the ugly one. - Yeah, you ugly bitch! - Yeah, consider yourself dumped, Crystal. - Are you fucking kidding? - You heard me, it's over. - Ugh, you are so going to regret this, Zach. - Why don't you go home and cry yourself to sleep? - You know what, have fun with lard ass. Be careful, she just might eat you. - Isn't it time for you to go throw up your lunch? (screaming) - [Crystal] God! (tense music) - Man, I can't wait to until I start my world tour. I'm going to be knee deep in pussy. And with Top That opening up for me, it's going to be the biggest tour in history. - [Boss] Oh, Lance, yes, yes. It'll be the biggest tour in history, but I have some changes in mind. - What kind of changes? - [Boss] Top That is going to headline it, and you're going to be the opening act. - What? How dare you, huh? I'm Lance Canyon. The hottest singer and the best piece of ass in pop music. - [Boss] Oh, hey Lance. Dustin has twice the ass you do. - My ass cannot be topped. I'm number one, you got that? Numero uno. I open up for no one. - [Boss] You're right, Lance. You're number one, today. But once Top That's album comes out, you're going to be yesterday's news. - Hmm, no, you're wrong. I'll be number one forever. - [Boss] Oh, Lance. Your stupid mind doesn't get it. Top That is the next big thing. Today I'm going to have them crash the free Sexina concert. When they upstage her at her own show, the media will be all over them. Top That will be ten times bigger than you are Lance, baby. I'm afraid your 15 minutes are almost up. You should consider yourself lucky to open up for newest pop sensation. - That wasn't part of our deal. - [Boss] I'm changing the deal, and if I were I'd pray I don't change it any further. (heavy breathing) - Hi, you must be Vera. - I love you, I'm your biggest fan! - Nice to meet you, too. This is my bodyguard, Chainsaw. - Hi Chainsaw! - Oh oh! Touch me and I'll kill you. - Is he always like this? - Yes, he is. So, would you like to go to lunch? - Would I? (upbeat music) This is so cool. I can't believe I'm having lunch with you. (laughing) - Thank you. - Hey Sexina, can I have your autograph please? - Sure. - [Waiter] Thanks. - So tell me about you, Vera. - What do you want to know? - Is there a boy at school that you like? Oh, so there is a boy. - Yeah, his name is Zach, and he's so hot. - Sounds awesome. Does he know that you like him? - Yeah, but he's really popular, and he was dating the coolest girl in school. - Was dating? Wait, is he single now? - Yeah. He broke up with his girlfriend today. - Well now's your chance. - I know, but oh no, he would never want to date me. Guys never want to date me. - Vera, listen to me. I have to be honest with you. I personally read your essay. I already know about Zach and the mean girls at school and how they're always bullying you I picked you, Vera, because I admire you. - You admire me? - Yeah, it took so much courage to write that down and express how you feel. You're stronger than you think, Vera. - Maybe I am, but I still wish Zach wanted to date me. - Whew, stuffed! You know what? I have an idea. You know what cheers me up more than anything? - Your dildo? - No, shopping! (upbeat pop music) ♪ Two girls out on the town ♪ ♪ Their feet won't touch the ground ♪ ♪ Heads are turning all around ♪ ♪ New clothes, new clothes ♪ ♪ We'll take a break from school ♪ ♪ Buy a dress that looks real cool ♪ ♪ Having a vagina rules ♪ ♪ Having a vagina rules ♪ ♪ There's no stopping ♪ ♪ Two girls shopping ♪ ♪ New clothes make the world go 'round ♪ ♪ There's no stopping ♪ ♪ Two girls shopping ♪ ♪ New clothes make the world go 'round ♪ ♪ Shop ♪ ♪ Shop until we drop ♪ - Wasn't that fun? - Yeah, but you didn't buy me anything. - Vera, listen to me. You don't need a new dress to look beautiful. You're already beautiful. Just the way you are. - But you bought like, 20 dresses. - I'm talking about you, not me. Alright, I'm just kidding. Here you go. Zach will not be able to resist you in that. - Thanks Sexina, you rule! (tense music) (car horn honking) (brakes screeching) (metal crashing) - When am I going to be released? - You'll be released when the boss says so. - Please, have some mercy, I want to see my daughter. - I've heard enough from you, so shut up or I'll shut you up. (thudding) - Come on professor, I'm getting you out of here. (crowd chattering) - Today is the great day. Sexina is about to perform for all of you. (audience cheering) As your principal I must stress that everyone must behave in a civilized ma nner. This is a school and we want to show that all of you are mature young adults. - [Boy In Audience] One, two, three. - [Boys] These nuts! (audience laughs) - Very funny. Please give a round of applause for our opening act, Boaz. (upbeat dance music) (cheering) ♪ I'll be yours tonight ♪ ♪ Tell me if you're feeling down ♪ ♪ The music going to lift you up ♪ ♪ Funk you up, turn you 'round ♪ ♪ Every time you hear that sound ♪ ♪ Music going to lift you up ♪ ♪ Funk you up, turn you 'round ♪ ♪ Crazy 'cause it feels so good ♪ ♪ Like a remedy, it's a cure ♪ ♪ Workin' like it should ♪ ♪ Come on DJ, play my song ♪ ♪ Catch the melody, feel the beat ♪ ♪ Turn me on ♪ ♪ Dance with me if the rhythm's right ♪ ♪ Take a chance with me ♪ ♪ I'll be yours tonight ♪ ♪ Dance with me if the feeling's strong ♪ ♪ Take a chance with me ♪ ♪ I'll turn you on ♪ - Sexina, I can't tell you how happy we are to have you here. - My pleasure. This is my bodyguard Chainsaw. - Nice to meet you, Chainsaw. - I want you to know that if any of your students act up I'll be more than happy to take care of them for you. - I might actually take you up on that. I wish all of students could be like our Vera here. - Thanks Principal Matthews. - She is the one that made all this possible. - You told me you were close to finding my father. - We are, we just need a little more time. - You have had enough time. I want my father found now, and why are there pictures of Sexina all over the walls? - (gasping) Daddy! - I love you, Princess! - I have been so worried about you! - The president of Glitz Records kidnapped me. He made me build a cyborg boy band. - Do you mean Top That? - Yes, they're robots. They have been scientifically cr eated to be the ultimate boy band. - Yeah, we must destroy them before they take over the world. - Aren't you in on this plot, Lance? - He was, but then he helped me escape. - How do we know we can trust him? - Look, I know I've been an ass in the past, but I changed. I don't want to be a criminal no more. Criminals go to jail, and chicks in jail have penises. - How did you find us, father? - I had a chip implanted in the back of your head when you were a child, so that I would always know where you were. - Wow, dad, that's pretty creepy. - What did you expect? I'm a scientist. - Come on guys, we've got to get down to the high school. - Why? Is Sexina in danger? - Look, Top That's going to crash the show and try to outperform her, and if that happens, they'll be impossible to stop. ♪ Dance with me ♪ ♪ If the rhythm's right ♪ ♪ Take a chance with me ♪ ♪ I'll be yours tonight ♪ ♪ Dance with me ♪ ♪ If the feeling's strong ♪ ♪ Take a chance with me ♪ ♪ I'll turn you on ♪ ♪ I'll be yours tonight ♪ (audience cheering and applauding) - Wasn't that great? Today reminds me of when I was in high school and the Osmonds came to perform. - [Boy In Audience] Lick my balls, you jackass! (audience laughs) - Chainsaw, would you take care of that? - My pleasure! - Now, without further ado, the one and only Sexina! (audience cheering) - Sexina! - What is up Britney High? (cheering) Now before we get started, I want to bring out a friend of mine. She is the reason that I'm here today. Everyone, give it up for Vera! (audience cheering and applauding) (groaning) - Alright, now it's time to get busy. (audience cheering and applauding) (dramatic electronic music) - Yo, I don't think so, Sexina. - Look, it's Top That. (audience cheering and applauding) - Top That? What are you guys doing here? - We'll show you. ♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa oh oh oh ♪ ♪ Sensitive romantic ♪ - I'm a wild stallion you can't tame. - I want to kill my parents. - I really wish I was black. - [Audience] Aww. - Well I'm too hot for you guys to handle. - That's enough! (audience cheering) - Lance Canyon! - So you came here to help your friends, huh? - No, I'm here to help you. And trust me, you're going to need me. - I don't need your help. I can handle these chumps on my own. - Yo, are you with us or against us, Lance? - I'm with Sexina, and you know what? I think it's about time people knew about your secret. - You wouldn't dare, biotch. - Oh yeah? - Well not only is G-Dog not really from Jamaica, he's also a robot. (crowd gasps) (crowd screaming) (electricity crackling) - So that's why the professor was kidnapped. To create a boyband made out of cyborgs. - That's right, biotch. - One thing I don't get though is, why would you help me, Lance? - Well, because Top That could become more popular than me. - You really betrayed us, Lance, and that really hurts my feelings. - Yeah, so we're going to have to kill all you fuckers. - Chainsaw, you have my permission to kick some ass. - I want a piece of the bodyguard. - Finally I get to beat someone up. (upbeat jazzy music) (fist thudding) (grunting) - Oh, not my face, my beautiful face! - God I love hitting you! (whimpering) (grunting) (groaning) - If you want Sexina, you're going to have to go through me. - Vera! - Okay. - Quick, someone throw me a football! Thanks! (grunting) (screaming) - Oh shit! - Vera, are you okay? - I'll be alright, keep fighting. - Don't worry Sexina, I'll take care of her. - You're a good man, Zach. (dramatic music) - Sexina! - What, Sara? - I need to tell you something. - I love-- (electronic beeping) (electricity crackling) (buzzing) - I'm too sensitive for this! - Pretty boy. - It's time to die now. - Quick, somebody get me a guitar. - Here you go, dude. - Thanks, man. I'm going to rock you harder than a hurricane. (intense electronic guitar music) - You're next in line for an ass whooping, pretty boy. - No, I beg you, please don't hurt me, no! - Shut up. - I'm not ready to rock. - Hurting you makes my dick hard. - Rock overload. (electricity crackling) (buzzing) - Hell yeah! (audience cheering) - Looks like we took care of Top That. - I've got it, dude. - Thanks, man, here you go. - Amazing, you guys defeated Top That. - Professor, how did you escape? - Lance broke me out. Thanks to him I've been reunited with my lovely daughter. - I'm never going to let you out of my sight again, daddy. - That's so nice, Lance. Guess I was wrong about you. - Look, I know now that what I was doing was wrong. I'm going to fight on the si de of good from now on. (fists thudding) - Good to hear that. - Was that good for you? It's good for me. - Chainsaw! (electricity crackling) Chainsaw, you can stop now, I think he's dead. - But I wasn't even tired yet. - Sexina! - Oh, Sara, are you okay? - Yeah, I'm fine. I'm just glad to see you alive. - I'm glad to see you're okay too, Sexina. - That's so sweet, Lance. (dramatic music) - That was very brave of you to stay and help. - I had to. You see Vera, I realized something today. - What is it, Zach? - I know now that I love you. - Oh, Zach! I love you too. - [Audience] Aww. - Zach, I can't believe my ears! Have you lost your mind? You're supposed to be my man! You're supposed to be loving me, remember? I'm hot and I won't let you dump me for this fat, stupid loser. - You know what Crystal? I have had enough of you. (grunting) (crowd murmuring) How do you like me now, bitch? (audience laughs) - She got beat down! (peaceful music) - Wow Vera, I'm really glad yo u stood up to her like that. - Yeah Vera, that was a first rate ass kicking. - Yeah! - I really do love you. - I know. - See, Vera, I knew you'd get your man, because you were-- - Yeah, beautiful all along, I get it. - I've been wanting to do this all day. (crowd whistling and cheering) (moaning) (mellow, funky music) (crowd shouting) - They're in love, huh? That's what I really want, Sexina. To be just like the two of them. - I thought all you really wanted was to have sex with any woman that would let you. - I just did that to fill the empty void in my heart. All I really want is to fall in love. - I avoid falling in love by working all the time. - Maybe we're not as different as you think we are. - Maybe not. (crowd cheering) - Sexina, why would you kiss Lance? - I can't explain it, Sara, I just feel a connection with him. - So do I, Sexina. You're my soul mate. - But what about me, Sexina? - Don't worry Sara, you'll find a man of your own one day. - Ooh! - I've had enough. (dramatic music) Do you really think I'd let you get away with this, hm? You've destroyed my plan to take over the music industry. Top That with sweet, sweet Dustin, was gonna take the world by storm and provide me with power beyond imagination. Now that you've killed my dream, I must kill all of you. Starting with my daughter, Sexina. (crowd gasps) - What? - Who would have thought the little girl I threw away in a garbage can all those years ago would grow up to trash all my pl ans. - You're lying. - I killed your mother, but I didn't have the heart to kill you, Sexina. Of course, I would live to regret that. I have to admit though, I was proud of you when you became such a big star. I always kept track of you. I guess I always thought in the back of my mind you would want revenge for what I did to you. - You can't be my father. - Oh, search your heart Sexina. You know it to be true. - Then why did you kill my mother? - She never supported my plans for world domination. She wanted me to get a nine-to-five job like a square! So I shot her. Just like I'm going to shoot you. - Kill me instead! (crowd gasps) - Settle down, brown eyes. I'm going to kill all of you Lance. I'm sorry but my daughter will have the honor of dying first. - If I really am your daughter, I bet you won't be able to kill me now just like you couldn't do it then. - Oh, I'm sorry, but you're wrong. (gun clicking) (crowd gasping) (gun firing) (groaning) (crowd screaming) So this is how it ends for me. Shot in the back. You win, Sexina. (sighs) Now I have to face your mother. (crowd screaming) - Looks like I showed up just in time. - Man, we didn't need you. I was two seconds away from killing him myself. - You saved my life, Sal! - Oh, hey, I'd do anything for my favorite client. - Hey Lance, looks like you're going to need some new representation. - No thanks, man. I'm retiring from the music business. - I can't believe my father was evil. - You're nothing like him, Sexina. You make the world better for everyone. - He was a second away from killing me. - Yeah, but today wasn't your day to die. You still have so many people to help. - You're right. - Sexina, there is something I have to tell you. - What is it? - I'm a robot. (crowd gasping) - Is that true? - Yes, it's true. I created Lance as a pleasure robot. He has been programmed with more than 1,000 techniques to bring a woman to orgasm. - Really? (chuckles) Well, sounds like a happy ending to me. - Can you make me one of those robots, daddy? (moaning) - That's it, I'm leaving! I'll see you at the office! - What has gotten into her? - I think she's just mad 'cause I forgot to thank her. (mumbling) - Hey, how 'bout you sing us a song? - I think it's a great idea. - Let's rock this joint! - That's right! (audience cheering) (upbeat pop music) ♪ We have waited all our lives ♪ ♪ For a moment like this ♪ ♪ Don't surrender 'cause this is it ♪ ♪ No, no, never quit ♪ ♪ And never say die ♪ ♪ You can't win ♪ ♪ So don't even try ♪ ♪ So fight back ♪ ♪ Keep fighting 'til the end ♪ ♪ We can win ♪ ♪ With help from my friends ♪ ♪ So stand up ♪ ♪ And be counted as heroes ♪ ♪ Losers lose ♪ ♪ And that's how it goes ♪ ♪ Victory is in the air ♪ ♪ You can smell it everywhere ♪ ♪ It feels like new underwear ♪ ♪ Vera's got sexy hair ♪ ♪ Everything is going to be okay ♪ ♪ Today is a brand new day ♪ ♪ Please get out of the way ♪ ♪ If you're evil, you will pay ♪ ♪ So fight back ♪ ♪ Keep fighting 'til the end ♪ ♪ We can win ♪ ♪ With help from my friends ♪ ♪ So stand up ♪ ♪ And be counted as heroes ♪ ♪ Losers lose ♪ ♪ And that's how it goes ♪ ♪ So fight back ♪ ♪ Keep fighting 'til the end ♪ ♪ We can win ♪ ♪ With help from my friends ♪ ♪ So stand up ♪ ♪ And be counted as heroes ♪ ♪ Losers lose ♪ ♪ And that's how it goes ♪ (upbeat pop music) ♪ Numero uno lover ♪ ♪ You better run for cover ♪ ♪ Girl, you make me love you like I can ♪ ♪ I was made to please you ♪ ♪ I am spicy and I always wax my chest ♪ ♪ When it comes to sex I surely am the best ♪ ♪ Numero uno lover ♪ ♪ You better run for cover ♪ ♪ Numero uno lover ♪ ♪ You better run for cover ♪ ♪ Numero uno lover ♪ ♪ You better run for cover ♪ ♪ Sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, ♪ ♪ Ina, ina, ina, ina, ina, ina ♪ ♪ Sex, sex, ina, ina ♪ ♪ Shooting to the top ♪ ♪ Sex, ina, ina, ina ♪ ♪ Dangerous ♪ ♪ Undercover ♪ ♪ Dangerous ♪ ♪ Undercover ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Shooting to the top ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Dangerous ♪ ♪ Dangerous ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Dangerous ♪ ♪ Dangerous Sexina ♪ ♪ Undercover ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Dangerous ♪ ♪ Undercover ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex ♪ ♪ Ina, ina, ina, ina, ina, ina ♪ ♪ Sex, sex, ina, ina ♪ ♪ Shooting to the top ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪ ♪ Dangerous ♪ ♪ Sexina ♪