Transcript for The Sex of Angels (1968) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Are there many run down villas around here? Many Luca's family has decided to renovate it only to sell it to a German brewer It's criminal to let it crumble like this I brought the stuff for the trip Why did you come here early? We'll leave tomorrow morning Tomorrow morning? Didn't we agree on the weekend? My father is back tomorrow and I don't want to see him I can't leave before Saturday Why is that? The workers are lazy if I'm not here He doesn't want to come with us You can't ditch last minute Don't insist, he can't come Sure he can It's just he doesn't want to I'll say it plainly, I don't feel like it We are wasting our time here Better alone than with friends like him Nora, wait Nora Trust me, give up I'll think about it Please do I don't feel like it today They can wait I said I don't feel like it How old are you? I never asked you Twenty-five, why? Too old, already Calling was useless Igi has already left for Venice Shame, he was the right kind of guy Right for what? First, tell me Are you happy? What a stupid question Tell me Come on, answer me Sometimes is good Sometimes I'd like to bang my head against a wall Maybe our lifestyle is too idiotic Sergio! Sergio, wait! Sergio Hey! I'm in a rush, little sister! Who was playing? Any preference? No, can I borrow one for this evening? Can you lend me 100.000 lira? I'm not giving you any money, don't count on it Well, I was counting on it Wait and ask Dad You know we don't get along Then suit yourself Also, don't bring any boys with you Just you three Don't tell me that you are worried about your little sister's celibacy So? He doesn't want to give me any money ...that bastard How much do you have left? I don't know It's just enough for petrol Do we need much of it? Yugoslavia is right there and we'll go just for a couple of days It's close enough but the Corbina runs out quickly In the morning we'll be in Rovinj We'll stop at customs and then head to Krka's waterfalls The fjord opens up in many coves and inlets We'll choose one and stay for a couple of days Return on the same route How will we dump the boatman? We will find a way Now, we only need to find a guy Let's not rack our brains over it The right guy won't come out of nowhere Rest assured I will find him Don't hope to find him here Why not? Anywhere is good What's your name? Marco What about hers? Carel I found her in Palinuro in a student summer camp Are you a student too? Third year of Medicine Where are you staying at? In a caravan by the sea Do you live with her? Yes Is it going to last long? Well, we'll break up sooner or later Marco? Is she jealous? Yes and no Do you cheat on her? Yes and no Is she good at love-making? Yes, definitely Would you make love to me? Tonight? Why such a hurry? You'll tell me when Bye Bye He's fine with me Same with me Sadly, he lives with a girl We would need to invite her over What do we want another girl for? There are too many of us Go and ask him if he comes by himself He's not the kind of guy who leaves his mulatta for three whole days Trying costs nothing There's another way for having him all by himself No luck for tonight? Better to sleep on it It's a good method to deepen the desire Then I'll go to sleep right away Where are we meeting tomorrow? There's a hidden beach round Punta Lunga We could meet there around ten Yes, I know it I go there fishing Do you do spearfishing? Let's say that I try to and sometimes it turns out well The engines are ready We can leave tomorrow morning If we find lobsters in Yugoslavia you'll see how good a cook I am You are not coming Who said that? You father? Well, it's my idea Just... Just an idea For example you could be sick But I'm feeling great I know But tomorrow you could come down with a bout of appendicitis and not being on board You have been working for us for three months Who can guarantee that you... Ouch That's enough for now I don't like a payment in installments Be content the rest will come afterwards if you won't show up in the morning Who can guarantee that you... Who can guarantee that you... One of us has to take a chance Don't you think? Right? You'll take it Well? Agreed? We'll do the rest on Sunday evening Is that alright? Mario! Hey Mario! Mario! He's not there Go and look for him at home we will take care of the suitcases Alright Let's go before he calls my brother How long to Punta Lunga? Not more than five minutes Give me ten I want to wear my best swimsuit before towing the net Where should I put it? Nobody will look for it here Are you ready? We are almost there Give me a second and I'm ready Hey, you are going to hit me! Move! Move! Marco, it's me! Turn! Turn! Nancy! Hi! Am I late? Dive in Let's go ashore on my dinghy Come on, jump on instead How? Am I coming on board? My cabin is much more comfortable than the rocks This one's crazy Let's go girls You can start the engine What are you doing? Stand up Come in This is Nora She's the captain Hi captain Hi and that's Carla she's obsessed with sunbathing Here, use the speaker Hey Carla! Can you hear me? I love tanned bottoms Mine already is What is this? An invitation? Come on, let's go Are there no sailors on this boat? Us four are the only wildlife on this ark Interesting Okay Come on, you can wander around later I don't like the taste of salt Go and shower Nancy Dry it in the shade so it won't fade Let's go now! He's all ours! Hey Carla! Leave it in the shade He's afraid it will lose color How long is it to Rovinj? Three hours on full speed How can I keep him entertained for this long? Did you take him to my father's cabin? Yes I'm sure you will find something to make the game easier Right On a round bed... I have never done it before Hey, what do you say about this? What is it? Mink Nora's father uses it on his girl-friends Done? Are you not in the mood anymore? Be careful I don't take the pill it makes me sick Carla get dressed Socialist countries have become puritan We are about to enter into Rovinj's channel I'm giving him the good news Hopefully, he won't get mad It must be late Almost one One? It will take me over an hour to get back to the camping It'll take you much longer than that We are in Yugoslavia Where?! Yugoslavia?! Rovinj's harbour Who came up with this idea? I did A longer trip to spend some time together Tell me isn't that a lovely thought? Hey Who am I seeing on the trip back? Would you like someone new? You and I didn't have the best of times Tell me, are you frigid? Are you leaving me here naked? How did he take it? Well, so far Wait what if he runs away while we are docked? He doesn't have his passport He can't even get out the cabin I left him without any clothes There is the harbour patrol [Inaudible] Nancy? It's two already and I'm starving Our guest is probably hungry We have to treat him well What do you say about a roast which we can easily cook inside a tin can? Hey Who's driving the boat? I put the autopilot on we'll take a look from time to time This one is for the seagulls Should we tell Marco why we have taken him with us? I would wait a little Let him process our unscheduled trip What if he doesn't want to stay for three days? Then he will jump off and swim back Trust me, I won't backtrack at this point Well, what do you say? Do you like it? You look like a woman Well, sometimes you look like men Dinner is ready Such luxury! Let me guess This boat is not returning to Italy Well I'm happy to forgive you for my abduction I knew you wouldn't make a fuss Nonetheless could you tell me when you intend to bring me back home? We'll be back on Sunday night is that all right? Sunday night is fine, but... I'd like to let Carel know We'll call via radio and Nora's brother will go tell her Then everything is settled Just one small detail... why this sweet abduction? You wouldn't have left without your mulatta and we wanted you alone I am as a pasha in his harem it is very exciting You're way off You're not a pasha and we're not your odalisques You look quite like you could be my odalisques Looks can be deceiving, dear boy No pashas or odalisques on board just friends It's quite easy if Marco insists on calling his mulatta via radio we won't place the contact But he could notice it Who? Marco? Rest assured he won't understand anything What about his girlfriend? What will she say tonight if she doesn't see him coming back to the camp? She'll think he spent the night with another girl He told me they cheat on each other Tomorrow she will ask herself where he ended up going She will be in the dark for a couple of days and on Sunday night - the mystery will be uncovered And she will have his boy back I'm on the deck Don't tell me you're jealous Jealous? You're nuts Leave them alone It's time that Carla finally wakens up A beautiful weekend with three beautiful girls It could only get better if also Nora and yourself... I'm out Nobody ever succeeded with me Maybe you have yet to meet the right man assuming it's the truth You don't believe me, do you? Why not? It could be the truth Honestly, tell me Are you not even a little curious? Sure, of course I am Let me give you and advice Just do it so you won't think about it You and I? There's time It's never too early you should know There's no point you getting too excited there's no chance with me Do you care that much about your chastity? Chastity Such a full word Okay, okay, I won't Let's say there's an erotic sort of allergy If I'm not here to play cards with you all what's the damn reason for my captivity? Have you ever done drugs? Nancy! Wait I want to try it out I want to shoot Nancy, I want to do it too You made me miss it Oh please, just one shot I want to shoot down a seagull You don't know how to handle it, see? Here Place the stock on your shoulder and lock it with your cheek Like this? Keep it tighter Now shoot Now try again See that is not that easy? Hey Where are you taking us? We're entering the fjord Doing what? To see Krka's falls aren't you happy? Well, who cares! I never liked playing the part of the tourist Slow down, it's quite shallow The bed is too shallow to proceed it's better to stop here So what's the programme? We'll dock the boat and spend the weekend here But first let's swim by the waterfalls Later I want to go fishing, though Let's have a picnic then Good idea, roasted fish for dinner then! I can feed all of you here If you can fish any... Thank you Why have you left Nancy alone? You should stay with her Doing what? She doesn't think straight Maybe you are the one not thinking straight Why don't you see for yourself? Quite insistent, am I right? You can say that I particularly care for you If it helps you cooling off I'll tell you straight The first man to make love to me must be black What? Black?! See, it shocks you too that is why he must be black because everyone gets offended No, not at all I'm not shocked at all I'm not a racist, you know? My girlfriend is black If I could get tanned a little more I would show you there's no much difference Why haven't you told me that drugs are included in the menu? Ah, has Carla blown the whistle? Tell me more about it First of all, it's not drugs we're taking What is it then? LSD! I don't see much of a difference! Call it what you want then You are all crazy I don't need any drugs to feel new emotions I feel sorry for you settling for the usual stuff A trip on LSD could change your life and bring you closer to the truth What do you think you will find? Heaven? Yes, let's say we want heaven! Come and find it with us It would take a miracle to convince me What if it happened tonight? I'll go fix the winch on the bow to pull the dinghy in I'll stay You can pull me in too If I can make it What is happiness to you? Having a little tiny breast Is it? Well, it's quite small Unlike Paolina's Paolina? My nanny Breast hypertrophy Don't tell me she was the first one you made love with You guessed it right Seduced by the nanny Now I understand your vulgar view on sexual intercourses Put this on Do we have to dress up? Even the formal dress! You're taking it very seriously Maybe tonight, you and I... we'll make love Don't you like the idea of it? That is precisely what I am asking myself Now go I'm putting my eye make-up on Nancy Aren't you afraid? Afraid? Of what? Put the sugar cubes on the table, please Can you explain what kind of ritual is this? I'll put a new tape on There's four tracks which will reverse automatically It's long enough to record everything that will be heard in here Voices Noises, shouts Everything Why recording? I always remember the beautiful things It will be useful Often LSD causes amnesia It could be either total or partial Partial? We could have only partial memories of what happen tonight Better to put away hazardous objects and lock ourselves inside Take it easy one dose should be enough One of us could do something stupid perhaps... diving into the sea or climbing the flagpole I want to take no chances even if LSD causes insensitivity to pain How do we get out of here tomorrow? We'll break the door down it's Nora's boat after all Who's going first? Don't play dumb Shut up Shut up Help me Shut up Do you think I feel any better than you? Shut up The heart has stopped Daddy Daddy Help me Dad It hurts Help Nora Wake up Nora The wonderful trip has ended Help me, please My stomach Help How are you feeling? I'm still quite dizzy Come in and sit down Just like you said total amnesia I can't remember a thing Not even why your face is painted like that? Do you know? Perhaps... you wanted to look like a black man and seduce Carla Don't be ridiculous Do you remember who shot me instead? Shot you? Who shot who? Are you joking? Joking? What is this then? Luckily you shot me with a toy-gun Are you sure you didn't do this yourself? By myself, you say? Is there a medical kit in here? The bullet is still inside Doesn't it hurt? Not much for the moment but soon the effect of the drugs will worn off and I won't be this cheerful It's better that I take this time to go and wash this idiotic paint I want to take this stupid mask off immediately What are you staring at? I'm starting to remember something I have already seen you two on that bed Sure, we were sleeping No, you were wide awake and I remember something clearly You took Carla away from the living room and she let you kiss and hug her What are you saying? You haven't brought her on this bed to sleep Oh really? Perhaps you even remember when my vampire teeth came out Come on now, let's wash your face I'm dying Relax now My heart... is not beating It's just an impression You will feel better soon don't be afraid Call my father, please Daddy, daddy Again with daddy She keeps repeating the same thing Who knows what we did yesterday night Something must have been recorded perhaps, even who shot me Wait Nora and Carla have the right to know too Has it started hurting? Are you really sure there was a gun in here? What is that then? Do you remember anything about this awesome night? What do you care about what I remember? Just curious I want to know who shot me Did you do bang-bang? Shot you? Oh, shut up! What are you throwing away? It's too late now My stomach Take her outside to throw up Bust the door down then No hard work for me I've got a hole in my spleen Nancy, do something open the door Believe me I study medicine But there's little blood coming out There's a reason for that The bullet acts like a cork And if the cork pops off... Puff! Haemorrhage and amen Are you not overdoing it? Aren't you overreacting a little? Why should I? Let's go back and bring me to Venice hospital Hospital? It's a pretty quick operation The spleen can be removed like tonsils or the appendix I can easily live without it Does it need to be done right away? If I don't go flailing around we have all the time to get to Venice Okay Nora needs a cold shower first so she can snap out of it She's the one driving us there In the meantime come and lay down in the cabin How is Nora doing? She puked her guts out Is it... Is it true that Marco has been shot? Don't you worry It's nothing serious What did Marco do to me? That dirty-minded man! What do I know about it? I'm not your maid, you know? I'm sorry Everything is still such a blur Did you shoot him by any chance? Who did I shoot? Marco has been injured Injured you say? How? There was a gun in here Oh yes, in the drawer A little one My mother bought it when she was acting all jealous No... I don't remember seeing it Not tonight But I do remember something vividly Marco is running towards me naked and he's shouting His body emanates a strong scent even from afar It's sweet and nauseous Almost suffocating Why don't we listen to the tape? Knowing the truth could turn us against each other There's only one thing to do to treat Marco's wound without us feeling guilty for what has happened Alright? Nancy Are you sure you can't remember who shot him? Sure I don't! I could be lying though, not only for myself! Maybe to protect one of you stupid girls! When he is fine When all of us will laugh about this Only then, we will listen to the tape and will know what has happened tonight Do you agree? Alright How are you feeling now Nora? Like shit Hello? Hello?! Why aren't they answering the phone?! They're gone Look at them! The three sluts are sunbathing! Take it easy with the slurs! I'll send you all in jail! Go on with your threats! We're leaving right away! You should have taken me to Venice already Sit down What now? You won't get dressed until you have started the engines I can't take it, I need morphine There's all the drugs on this boat except the one I need Why did we stop? Why did you stop? We're almost out of petrol it' useless to go round in circles He's very sick At this point in time we have to forget about our own fears Are you going up against us? I'm not standing against anybody but we need to do something for him The first thing is to stay calm Which island is that? I don't know I hope you're not thinking of taking Marco there Perhaps... we could go and buy what he needs Sure, maybe it's just a matter of antibiotics You'll see that he will be back on his feet soon He asked for morphine They won't give it to us without a prescription Let's try She will come along with us She could start talking when on the ground She won't Listen to us Carla Luckily, no one knows Marco is on this boat If they find him now they'll want to know how, when and why Let's not risk it just now, let us wait a little If Marco gets worse, we'll take him to land Okay, let's do that Dr. Den here Italian? Yes Please I have a girl-friend with a bad fever Do you understand fever? And she's very much in pain Do you understand morphine? Morphine Yes, yes morphine Can it be bought? Not possible Only with prescription We can pay It's not for us but for a friend in need No it's forbidden He thinks we are the ones taking it You are not kind with me Just one box and I'll be kind to you Many tourists at the camping in Silba Swedish, English, German I know them girls They're all kind to me We are wasting our time This guy won't risk going to prison just to make love with one of us I'm a virgin You are mad! You wouldn't be able to Who cares who is the first one And you want it to be that bastard? You haven't heard Marco screaming in pain Well, I won't stop you but if you think that guy will make love to you just - Yes Morphine is forbidden If it comes to that my friend is forbidden as well for a son of a bitch like you Later for your sick girlfriend Now We'll wait here Just don't Hurry up Marco mustn't know Can we go now? Where are you going to? Up to the wheelhouse Doing what? Not to get screwed again I know how to read the compass Carla What are you waiting for?! Give me a hand! He's acting like a fool He must stay in bed You are crazy! Help me, come on! He mustn't do anything stupid! You are killing me! Let go of me! I will be back on Sunday night as planned not a minute earlier Over and out Sunday night? We told Marco we're going back today I said Sunday What are you two doing? Do you want him to die? I'm not keen of this, alright? Hey Nancy That is Silba's lighthouse The map says it's abandoned We can dock here for the night The weather is getting worse It could start raining If the sea bulges up... we can't stay anchored here and we haven't got enough petrol Where can we refuel? We could go back to Rovinj but we are afar What should we do with Carla? She insists in taking him to the hospital What she wants doesn't matter Don't scream I want to talk to you I want to talk, Carla Please, be quiet What do you want now? Use the radio Carla, I feel terrible Carla... I'm afraid to die It would be a stupid, ridiculous death Please help me to save myself Why are you asking me? Because you are different from the two scumbags out there If you're afraid... of the police, I will say... that I accidentally shot myself Quick, please with the radio! Someone will hear They will come and take me Tell me how it works What's the right lever? There's no more time! Corbina Corbina! Here Corbina! Come and save me! Corbina! We're docked by a lighthouse! Corbina! Corbina Rescue me, please! Please, let me go with my dinghy I will go back by myself I won't tell a soul I was ever on this boat You're very irresponsible Would you go, in the middle of the night with this sea, on a dinghy? That would be suicide You'll kill me Help! Give me some morphine! Carla, go and fetch it from the other cabin I said go! I'm cold, so cold It hurts I'm cold You want to kill me I'm so cold Morphine! Now you'll go to sleep Hey Don't leave me I don't want to be alone I'll stay No, Nancy will I see you are very tired You'll relieve her later on You never contacted Carel But you were there when we called with the radio No, you never did That is why you are leaving me to die because no one knows I'm here... with you Listen The boat is moving Before daylight we'll take you to the hospital in Rovinj Carla Hey Carla! Why didn't you wake me up? Don't you trust me anymore? Come and take the wheel Try to keep it steady Head straight on Nora, where are you going? How are you feeling today? He's much better No fever He slept soundly all night long We are going to be in Rovinj soon Don't you believe me? If you stand up you can see for yourself Is it true Nora? In Rovinj? If we land now I can still be saved Hurry up What It would be foolish to disembark in Yugoslavia Help! You mustn't get off here If the police sees you... they'll want to interrogate you to know what happened and they'll never take you to the hospital Even if we are still in time... would you undergo surgery here? We'll be in Venice in a couple of hours An Italian hospital is a much safer bet Look for something to tie him up with He's out of his mind He would be capable of anything Don't be a fool now that we land It's better for us all, trust me Marco included Hurry off now! Let the lines go You go to the bow! Come on guys! Help me! Help Help No, no, you go to him [Inaudible] What do you want to tell me - Nora You should come down Marco is dead It's too sweet Nora, what are we doing now? Nothing for the moment You would say that There's something to do immediately We'll listen to the tape Do you really want to know who did it? What would you do afterwards? Call the police? Carla is not an idiot Carla? Can you answer me, please? Maybe you shot him No, it's impossible! Not I, never! How can you be so sure? Listen we can't turn against each other We need to stick together especially now Nancy, let's listen to the tape Please I want to know Only for me Whoever it was I won't tell I promise If that's what you want I'll rewind it first Let's listen now You haven't recorder a thing Did you put the mic on? You lousy... You did it on purpose! Lousy! You erased it all! Don't kill me, please What did you just say? Don't kill me too She's gone mad You're right Nora You're insane! Kill you... no one has killed anybody Can't you understand? Do you really thing we didn't care about Marco? Aren't we getting too close? Don't you worry It's safer here closer to the Italian coast If we left him in Yugoslavia they would have wondered how he got there with that tiny dinghy Here is perfect Don't you feel like it anymore? Grab him from the shoulders Marco, you were nuts You believed it to be a great weekend trip Hop on now What will they say when they find him? They'll think someone shot him Dry off now and come inside It's getting colder