Transcript for Doctors' Wives (1971) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [♪♪♪] LORRIE: All right, girls... [WOMEN CHATTERING] Anyhow, I wanna know about the length of it. Was it good? Um... High man. Let's go. I'm in. Come on. All right. Here's for me, girls. MAGGIE: Are deuces wild? Did you say that deuce--? [WOMEN CONTINUE CHATTERING] Six and the ace. Bet's one. Oh, a pair of sixes. Oh, I'm getting such a headache. You shouldn't drink so much, Maggie. Don't be mean to Maggie. [CHUCKLES] God, I feel horny. You trying to be amusing, Lorrie, or just crude? No, I mean it. I would really like to make it right now, this minute. Keep your body stocking on, baby, until you and Mort get home. LORRIE: This is Wednesday. Mort thinks God gave it to man only for Saturday night. Would one of you like to slip out to the parking lot for a little while, hmm? How about you? No. No. Well, how about you, sweets? [CHUCKLES] Come on, let's play. King. King bets. A nine, four, jack and a deuce. Someday you'll come around to my idea of how to run a hospital. JOE: King's the bettor. MORT: I'd use the reserve fund to computerize the place from top to bottom. Here we are, talking shop as usual. JOE: Bet are deuces. I expect the girls are on the servant problem. You know my motto: an orgasm a day keeps the head shrink away. Oh, Lorrie. Two, please. How many did you take? Two. Two. Two. Girls, come on! Now, the reason you all get so uptight when someone speaks honestly is you're suffering from sexual malnutrition. [MAGGIE LAUGHING] I'm not suffering malnutrition, honey. I'm suffering from starvation. Can't we change this to something more pleasant? Oh, what could be more pleas--? Ah. You sound as if Paul isn't coming up with it. I love Paul. A word that is not in your vocabulary. Oh, never mind. End of discussion. Next question. Madam Chairman, I would like you to answer me this. Come on, now. When you and Pete go home tonight, you gonna take a shower together? How many do you want? Two. Or did you ever? I think he would prefer, dear, that I not discuss our personal life with a moron. Cards? One. PETE: Sneaky. Two. Say what you please, the clinic's not gonna cut one cent from the student program. Dealer takes three. And lastly, pigging around since the age of 15... Thirteen, sweet. ...does not necessarily make you an authority on sex or marriage. I call and raise. [CHUCKLES] Oh, you have given me a wonderful idea. When they try out a new drug, what do they do? They run a clinical test, huh? I'm willing to do the same. As a favor. I will lay my years of experience on the line. I will sleep with each of your husbands and find out what you've been doing wrong. Then I'll make a diagnosis and recommend a treatment. Perfect time for it with the kids at camp. Nobody could be a better friend. Oh, God. You're not swallowing all of this, are you? Darlings, I'm not bluffing. Matter of fact, I've covered 50% of the territory already. ♪ Someone is giving ♪ ♪ A costume ball ♪ ♪ Someone's depending ♪ ♪ On us to be there ♪ ♪ No chance of being ♪ ♪ Yourself at all ♪ ♪ But you'll know everyone You will see there ♪ ♪ Picture a ballroom Of mirrors that lie ♪ ♪ Oh, how you'll love the world They will show you ♪ [LAUGHS] Since it's a medical experiment, maybe I could charge them each a fee. Why not, darling? You're a specialist. [BOTH LAUGHING] Well, well... Bye. Bye, bye. What's the joke, huh? Oh, it's private, Joe. But it may be on you. [BOTH LAUGHING] [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] Isn't it a little late, Maggie? Well, if it isn't my ex-husband, the friendly neighborhood urologist. Come on, Maggie. I'll drop you off at the house. Hold it just a second. You don't tell me what to do. You're not my husband anymore. Go take care of your kidneys and your bladders. Will you drive her, Charlie, please? Hey, why don't you drive Lorrie home? ♪ And the costume ball Goes on and on ♪ ♪ And on every clock The hands never meet ♪ ♪ This is a ball Where midnight is missing ♪ ♪ At masquerades The kisses are sweet ♪ ♪ You never know Whose lips you are kissing ♪ I guess I'll just ask you straight out. You don't have to answer unless you want to. Unless I want to what? Did you ever sleep with Lorrie Dellman? Oh, for God's sake. I've known Lorrie since she was a kid. That's what I was thinking. She's not the minor-league slut she seems. She's more dangerous than that. That's what I call nailing down a point. Only what I don't see-- I mean... if you already have, see that it's over with. And if you haven't, don't. And which do you think is most attractive? PAUL: Why you, darling. But seriously... Well, the dermatologist in me would have to say that Amy has the most luminous skin-- No, Paul. I mean the man in you. Lorrie. Among other assets, Lorrie has about the cutest rear end in captivity. Outside of yours, old girl. [SIGHING] [SIGHS] Anyway, Elaine, why? No particular reason. "The Weston Clinic is established in common cause with the Stella Porter Memorial Hospital and Western University. Combining knowledge of the past and research of the present, this institution is dedicated to enrichment of life in the future." [INDISTINCT CONVERSATION] DAVE: Let's see how hot you are on trigonometry. Two and two? Four. Two and three? Four. Oh, that's very good. Heh. Anything positive? Well, his reflexes seem to be a little more active on the right side. I think Jerry better stay here with us for a couple of days, and you go home. No. No, I can't. I'm still on duty. No, you're off duty. I'll tell Surgery. Hey. Now, you be good, you hear? Mm-hm. [CHILDREN CHATTERING] [GUNSHOT] This is Dr. Mortimer Dellman. I live at 403 Pacific Drive. I believe I've killed my wife. The man I found her with, he... He seems to be alive. 403 Pacific Drive in Sherwood Ravine. I'll wait here. [SIREN WAILING] [CROWD CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY] Back, everybody. Move back. Give him room. Watch out, folks. Step back. MAN: Let 'em through. I don't mean to be insulting, babe, but I've had more action in a rocking chair. You know, the black widow spider eats her mate afterwards. I'm sorry you didn't enjoy it. I enjoyed it. If you have to get back to the hospital, you'd better leave. Look, this was more your idea than it was mine. And, uh, if it's valentines you want, you don't have to worry, babe. You got some of the prettiest playthings in town. I've had what I want from you. Now put on your clothes and leave. [CHUCKLES] OFFICER 1: Keep the sidewalk clear. OFFICER 2: Let's keep it clear. That's right. Stay back. OFFICER 1: All right. Let 'em through. Look out. Step back, please. [MUSIC PLAYING ON RADIO] Thanks, Charlie. Hello? It's Amy. Make way for the president of the state medical auxiliary. Hey, Amy, that's just great! You're a girl full of ambition and strength. How'd you swing it? I gave a perfectly adorable little speech slamming Medicare. But Pete's all for that. Now, dear, we don't have to tell him how I managed it. Damn, here comes one of my migraines. Why don't you stop by the club and have a stiff drink? That is not the answer to everything. ANNOUNCER [ON RADIO]: We interrupt this program... Would you turn that down? Tragedy struck our city only a short while ago out in the fashionable suburb of Sherwood Ravine. Wait. Hold it a second. ...that Dr. Mortimer Dellman, the prominent brain surgeon, has shot and killed his attractive wife, Loretta. I do not have details... Maggie? Maggie? ...but it appears to have been an act of passion when Dr. Dellman returned home unexpectedly and found his wife with another man. The man, who is also a prominent physician, was shot and seriously wounded. His name, however, has not been divulged by the police. But it's reliably reported he's on the staff of our well-known Weston Clinic. It's understood that Mrs. Dellman was killed instantly. Now we'll return you to music for mid-afternoon, but we'll interrupt from time to time if we get any further developments. [MUSIC RESUMES PLAYING ON RADIO] [CROWD MURMURING] Where's your husband? He's at his office. Who do you suppose it is? Maggie, it could be any of a dozen. You don't suppose it could be Joe? Oh, don't be so silly. Well, of course it's Joe. Well, he'll need blood. We're both group AB. That's not easy to find. Two hours? Doesn't he check in with you? Yes, I need him. I've got a ghastly headache. You can slow down, fellas. This joker's dead. Hi, Helen. Hi, Joanie. How's Jerry? Oh, well, we don't know yet. They're keeping him overnight. Why don't you come have a cup of coffee? Thanks, no, Joanie. I'm on my way home. You better get someone down here right now. Mrs. Straughn, look who they brought in DOA. If you see him, get him back here right away! WOMAN [OVER PA]: Dr. Ward. Dr. Ward, 56 West, please. [PHONE RINGING] When did it stop? Just when we landed. Where's the doctor on call? I'm trying to track him. He had to rush up to Intensive Care. He's left Intensive Care for Maternity. Right now, he's somewhere in between. Adrenaline! But we can't do that. I said, get the adrenaline! Put him on a max. Start the respirator. Bob. HELEN: Start an IV. Cardiac alert. Emergency room. Dr. Heart wanted in emergency room. Call for Dr. Heart. Dr. Heart wanted in emergency room. Call for Dr. Heart. Dr. Heart wanted in emergency room. Call for Dr. Heart. Dr. Heart wanted... That's code for cardiac alert. Let's catch this. Are we allowed? Dr. Heart wanted in emergency room. Could we see this, sir? Uh, yeah, why not? Chief of staff wants all students to observe everything, so go ahead. Dr. Heart wanted in emergency room. We called all over the place trying to locate him. [TIRES SCREECHING] [RESPIRATOR HISSING, CLICKING] Tell 'em to open a thoracotomy pack in O.R. 4. MAN: It's being done, sir. Oh, my God. How long was he without heart action? Only a couple of minutes. More like four or five. How much adrenaline? Two cc's. EKG. Well, it's a low voltage, but it's regular. PETER: Pulse? No. Tamponade. Large syringe and a 15 needle. Check me on this. Hold it. That's good. He's got a pulse now, Dr. Brennan. PETE: That doesn't mean he's alive. [BLOOD PRESSURE BULB SQUEAKING] Pressure's 80 over 50. PETE: He's breathing on his own now. What do you think, sir? He's got a chance. He may not live, but he's alive now. Wow. I just scored with this guy's wife. And at the same time, he's balling the hottest thing in town. There's no wound of exit. Bullet's still in him. Get him into X-ray. [PHONE RINGING] Dr. Brennan? You ever stick a needle in a man's heart before? Ever hear of closed heart massage? Of course. Why didn't you try that instead of adrenaline? Well, I did. I started to, but I wasn't-- You could lose your license over this. I don't care if you're the head operating nurse. You know a nurse cannot inject anything into the heart. What would've happened if I'd taken the time to round up a doctor? He'd be dead. JOE: Dave, Dave! Did I hear right about Paul? Yeah. It's terrible about Lorrie, isn't it? Lorrie? Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Lorrie with Paul? Yeah. Dellman killed her. Wow. That's like Lolita with the pope. Okay. I'll tell them. WOMAN [OVER PA]: Dr. Randolph, please call the operator. Dr. Burroughs, please call 104 West. Mrs. Brennan, Mrs. Randolph, Mrs. Gray, the alert's over. You can go in now. I'm sorry, they didn't say who. Dr. Ward, would you please call the operator? Well, this is a surprise. It's, uh, nice to see you're still with us. Oh, you figured I got caught with Lorrie. Well, I'm sorry to puncture your balloon, but it ain't me. MAGGIE: Couldn't care less if it was. Boy, could I use a drink. We're not piping vodka through the fountains till next year. You ought to get down on your knees. You realize I came to this hospital to give you my blood? Tell us, Dave. This bastard isn't going to. Who did Mort shoot? He shot Paul McGill. Pete! Pete! Please don't be angry with me. I... I really have a terrible migraine. I stopped by to ask you to give me something. Go home, Amy. How is Paul? Bad. Any brain damage? I don't know. He's unconscious. You're disgusted I thought it might be you. Oh, go on, Dave. Say it. There are various ways of expressing displeasure. Not expressing it is one of them. From now on, get your lousy blood from somebody else. Come on, doll. You know, we've got a disaster here. It's a personal and professional disaster. Yet we all stand around going for each other. Well... There's Percodan in my kit. It's in the closet in my bedroom. Take a couple of tablets. MAN: Dr. Brennan? X-rays will be ready in a few minutes in the viewing room. Yeah. Pete? I won the election. Medical auxiliary. Great. Wire the kids. Next time, run for senator. I thought you'd be pleased. Knowing what the clinic means to you and all, I thought it would help. The clinic? Why, you barely know where it is. When were you here last? A year ago for a checkup? And today when you wondered-- I came because I care. You came because you wondered. That's not fair. I've got to get a bullet out of a man. You want a domestic discussion, I'll be home later. In a stinking mood, no doubt. You can bet on it. MORT: This office is atrocious. BILL: Did you expect your wife to be with a man? Really atrocious. If I were district attorney, I'd hire a decorator. Did you hear my question? Did I expect her to be with a man? Well, with my wife, the probability has always favored that conclusion. Who did you think he might be? Oh, she was uncritical. For example, it might have been you or the district attorney. Who did you think the man might be? I had reason to believe she'd been seeing an intern named Mike Traynor. For a man who just stood this whole town right on its ear, you sure are one cool customer, mister. You had no idea it would be Dr. McGill? Of course not. So you arrived home, you went in the house... After I heard the sounds, unmistakable by the way, I must have lost my senses. I got my revolver. With this rash of burglaries, I keep a gun. I opened the door. I couldn't actually see who or where they were. I just fired. They tell me I shot her through the back. MALLOY: You sure did. Hmm. Would have been appropriate if I'd aimed lower. [OBSERVERS MURMURING] MAN: Take a good look. You may never see anything like it again. There's the bullet, inside the patient's heart, tumbling about in a stream of blood but within a confined region, which indicates it's right in the middle of a ventricle. [QUIETLY] New student? Uh, is that pad under him an ice blanket? That's right. The patient's temperature is lowered, reducing tissue metabolism. And need for oxygen as well. Uh, could you stand a little metabolism tonight? Occupied. You can see the head surgical nurse is preparing the skin. The scrub nurse over there is helping the doctors with their gloves. How about tomorrow? And of course, the anesthesiologist is keeping a close check on the patient. Go home. I'll call the minute we know anything. I just can't stay home and keep company with the walls. If this is some kind of symbolic display of strength, do you--? Maybe it's penance. Oh, no, this wouldn't make sense. The only place I won't go crazy is right here. I don't advise it. I won't make a scene. MAN: The entire operation takes place within a sterile field. Okay. Every conceivable precaution... Gowns, rubber gloves, masks. ...is taken to prevent infection. This plastic sheet is attached to the skin, reducing the chance of contamination from bacteria. [HEART MONITOR BEEPING AND RESPIRATOR HISSING] It's standard procedure at Weston for the doctor in charge to describe his operation step-by-step. PETE: Weston is a teaching clinic and a teaching hospital. [OVER SPEAKER] Since many of you only recently entered medical school, I make the presumption you know nothing. So I'll take this from page one. You've been briefed on the preliminary steps in the gallery. The first incision you make in open heart surgery is in the groin. The vessel he's after is what you'll be calling the femoral artery one of these days. PETE: The artery is now isolated and can be cannulated and connected to the pump oxygenator, if we should have to use it. It can take the place of both the heart and lungs. We've tried to track the bullet. We think it's in the right side of the heart. Since it passed through another body first, it might have been deflected. We may have to investigate both sides. I'll expose the heart to a median sternotomy incision. That means simply that he's going to split the breastbone. I am exposing the entire sternum. This incision will give us free access to the heart itself. [PHONE RINGS] I've been on the phone. They're operating on him now. God, I hope Paul makes it. I wouldn't want to harm him under any circumstances. My full confession. Hm? Bill, did you advise him of his right to--? Oh, your assistant's mindful of the Miranda case. He followed the law to the letter. However, I wouldn't say the art of interrogation is exactly his bag. All right, Bill, that'll be all. I'm afraid there's nothing there that'll help you. You don't mind if I read it? The facts are run of the mill, though stated quite articulately. I suspect people who are too, uh, articulate. Oh, come now. You know as well as I do that one's not responsible for his actions under these spicy circumstances. Why, only three years ago in the State v. Clark appeal, it was held a justifiable homicide-- How in the hell do you know so much about the law? Unlike my colleagues, I have many interests. I'm an authority on first editions, I've published a book on West Indian cooking, I have a theory about the-- Tell me this, simply this. Everyone, yourself included, knew of your wife's reputation. You must have had dozens of opportunities before. Why did you do it today? That's rather an interesting question. PETE: It's possible to cut all the way through the breastbone with this saw without damaging any of the underlying structures. [HIGH-PITCHED WHIRRING] [SIGHS] Doctors' wives. PETE: Using wax now. Closing off the marrow. This ligament here, the interclavicular. Now cutting it. This membrane... the pericardium. Open it. [WHISPERS] I think she's all right. PETE: What you see now is a human heart. I'll now expose the pulmonary artery, which carries blood to the lungs, so that we can block it and prevent the bullet from escaping into the lungs. The aorta, this large canal, carries blood to the rest of the body. I don't want to nick that. It might be uncontrollable. [WHISPERING] What's his like? [WHISPERING] What's his what like? His wife, of course. Oh. [♪♪♪] Starting what we call a purse-string suture. When I'm done, I'll make an incision in the center here, insert my finger and do a blind probe. My finger is in the right ventricle. I'm trying to locate the bullet. I can't feel it. Is it in the left side? If it is, we'll have to go on bypass. HAGSTROM: This oxygenator will let us open the heart and repair any damage to the wall between the ventricles. It will take considerable time. No, wait. The bullet. I got it. Trying to work it back. Yeah. It's caught. I can't... I can't get it out here. He'll have to make a second incision or try to push the bullet out the way it entered. I'm pressing the bullet against the wall of the ventricle. We'll have to do this with inflow occlusion. That means to block the inflow of blood. They can hold this for only a minute without serious brain damage. Tighten the tapes. They're tight. There it is. [ALL MURMURING] Radial purse-string. [SIGHS] He can do a blind probe on me any day. Any day. And I'm free tomorrow. What time? Where do you live? Could you handle the closure? NURSE: Would you like a culture on this? You look beat. You better go home. HELEN: I was on my way home when something funny happened. Mr. Porter, please. Just a word. Have you anything to say? Sir, have your grandchildren been informed? No comment. None at all. To your knowledge, has Dr. Dellman ever displayed a violent temperament prior to today? I do not care to speak about him. Any feeling about his legal position? I hope to God he gets what he de-- I told you, no comment. REPORTER [ON RADIO]: That's Jake Porter on the subject of the man who killed his daughter. Mr. Porter, who flew here from Phoenix this afternoon in his private jet, is a regent of Weston University and a philanthropist of international note. District Attorney Douglas has vowed a vigorous-- Well, this is gonna lacerate the clinic. For a while, anyway. To hell with the clinic. This may come as a surprise to you, but I don't feel any pity, any sorrow, any regret for that oversexed kook. Not an ounce. Do you want a cocktail? No. And I'm gonna play in that tournament tomorrow, whether you like it or not. You are not going to play golf. Have a little respect for the dead. Lorrie Dellman was a friend of ours. And your description of her is very unfair. Lorrie was one of the most normal people I ever knew. Because she always won at musical beds? I didn't say moral. I said normal. She didn't set out to destroy our marriage, she set out to improve it? I don't know what that means. It means a lot of things, Dave. We're on the brink of disaster. Don't you find it interesting that every time you're angry with yourself, you take it out on someone else? Oh, stop being so analytical. Why the hell should I be angry with myself? Would you like to go upstairs with me? That never interests you before dinner. Why tonight? [MUSIC PLAYING ON STEREO] [MUSIC STOPS] What are you doing in here? I'm getting the feel of your room and your shower. You apparently got rid of the migraine. Percodan and champagne. Doctors' wives have everything. Didn't take the Percodan. Couldn't find it. That's strange. I know I left my case in the closet. How's Paul? His heart's okay. We won't know the rest until morning. [STEREO CLICKS ON AND MUSIC PLAYS] How long has it been, Pete? I didn't mark it on my calendar. It's been a long time. Yeah. A very long time. Why do people stop doing it? I guess it's when going to bed with your wife becomes a duty. Did we ever make love not in bed? Huh. I see. This is the night for the big sex talk. Why not? I feel nothing ages a couple more than not talking about sex. I don't like to talk about it, Amy. I like to do it. We never made love on the floor, did we? People do, you know? In paperbacks, anyway. After 16 years of marriage, cool Amy Hughes, who only liked it in the dark and always pretended it was rape, finally pulls her pants down. Another child? Are you out of your mind? Will you stop playing the shrew? I took it before dinner and during dinner. I've... had enough of it about now. Della, every marriage needs a psychic energizer from time to time. Oh, my God. I realize it's an odd phrase for another child. What I'm saying is, let's get reinvolved, hm? Think about it. I just thought about it. I've got three kids, and I love them. But four is a crowd. It might interfere with your golf, but if you had a tournament that day you could arrange to give birth at the 19th hole. You'd have Maggie as the midwife. Look, Dave, I've lived in America a long time now, and I've picked up the slang, I know what a shortstop is, I even roast the weenies at your mother's cookouts, but, my God, it's dull. And all you can recommend is more of the same. I mean, the scene's past me by, man. I can feel myself getting older. My ass is beginning to sag. In my opinion, your ass is beautiful. Oh, now, look, don't change the subject. I hate Weston. I want to get out of here for a while. All right. I'll arrange to get away after the first of the year. Don't handle me, Dave. I know exactly what will happen. You'll say you can't get away until summer because Alice Perkins is suicidal and might knock herself off, which, incidentally, might be a blessing. This town could stand to lose a few more besides Lorrie. Now, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Now, why do you bring Lorrie into this? And why the steady abuse? Because you think I went to bed with her? No. Look, I've got to get some sleep. I've got a tournament tomorrow, and when I win, I'll play in the finals on Friday. You're too wise a husband or too good a psychiatrist to crowd me, aren't you, Dave? I wouldn't wanna do that. I'm simply telling you not to play. [♪♪♪] PETE: It's strange what turns people on. Bottle of wine... and Lorrie. AMY: Lorrie? PETE: When somebody dies, we want to prove we're still alive. LEW: Man, don't you ever get enough? Enough? What's that? Like, how many yesterday? Uh, four. You're sick. It's a sickness. It really is. Let's hope it's incurable. Good morning. I hear your husband's in fine shape. Good. Say, uh, that was some curve you threw me yesterday. "I've had what I want from you"? Heh, wow. He's against adoption, huh? Oh! Small-world department. Guess who I had a date with last night? Dr. Hague's nurse. You know Hague pretty well, don't you? The resident gynecologist. From what I hear, he's made every known test. Since he's never found anything wrong with you or your husband, your failure to fertilize has gotta be strictly psychological. Enter big daddy, hm? Oh, don't get me wrong. I'm flattered. I got a feeling I'm the first. How about this afternoon at 3:00? Tomorrow then. Look, all I'm prescribing is a booster. You can't be sure with one injection. You're the most vulgar young man I've ever met. Well, Elaine, it's you old people that bring out the vulgarity in us young people. Ciao. [ENGINE STARTS] [TIRES SCREECHING] Hey, Mike, watch out! What's the urgency, Mort? I don't have a lawyer yet. I'd like Lee Bailey. Good luck. But it's a clinic obligation entirely. You wouldn't have the gall. Your problem is that you're an ethical man, therefore, you assume the next fellow is. I'm not. I'm an expedient man. But then everybody is expedient in some section of his soul. Thanks for the lesson in comparative morality. A half-dozen magazines would pay handsomely for the intimate details of Lorrie's clinic project. You know that as well as I do. What clinic project? Oh, you mean to say that Amy didn't tell you? Well, the game was to bed down with all you fellows and report her recommendations to the girls. Sort of a living marriage manual. [CHUCKLES] Lorrie had an impish sense of humor. I wonder who decorated this dump. So either we play ball or you peddle this sex saga, is that it? I'm afraid it's what they want. Look at the bestseller list. You're a brilliant surgeon, Mort. You're also a son of a bitch. Ever been to Lebanon, Pete? How much? In Beirut, you swim in the Mediterranean. And then in an hour, you're skiing on a mountaintop. How much? Well, in any event, I'll have to establish a new life somewhere. A hundred thousand dollars. To buy out my share in the clinic. Actually, it's a steal. You fellows can stand the tab. You, Paul, Dave, Joe. Get Barney Harris to come in with you. Barney Harris is not on the board. I suggest he take my place. He's a good neurosurgeon, he's pleasant... and he cheats on his wife rather regularly. He'd fit right in. You're not a son of a bitch, Mort. You're a loathsome son of a bitch. [WOMEN CLAMORING] Girls. Girls. It's simply a matter of public relations. Now, we'll send flowers. We'll all go to the funeral tomorrow, and we'll send a wire to Lorrie's father extolling her many virtues. Oh, please. Lorrie was a tramp and we may as well admit it. Truth is, we're all tramps. Only, Lorrie was an honest tramp. You know why? Because she did what she wanted when she wanted. Most of the time, she was. Disgusting. What's the matter, honey? Maggie, pet, you're interfering with a matter of truly cosmic significance. Darling, the meeting's almost finished. Why don't you just sit over here for a moment? You know why you talk to me like that, don't you? It's because I never got out of high school. But Joe didn't care. He and I connected right off. Then... Then he began to make all this money. People kept bringing him their bladders. And then you had to let us in this snooty club. Everyone's in a stew today after the murder. You know why? Because that little old bullet got us all. Mm-hm, that's right. Got you and you and me. Maggie, have some coffee. And you, Amy Brennan, chairman of the bullshit committee. Okay. Meeting's adjourned. [WOMEN CHATTERING] Is that the spinal? Mm-hm. That's what caused the convulsion yesterday. Only a drop of blood now, but there must have been more then. You better have Penfield set him up for an angiogram. Mm. Take him to Radiology. Keep him very quiet. We don't want to risk the possibility of a rehemorrhage. Dr. Brennan, I'd like to stay with him. All right. I'll have Miss Collins sub for you at surgery until the boy is out of danger. SYBIL [ON RECORDING]: Combining knowledge of the past and research of the present, this institution is dedicated to enrichment of life in the future. Can you imagine? At the very moment that I was recording that, he was shooting his wife. What did you say her name was? Lucy? Lorrie. You've got a curious sort of a hobby. Yes? Yeah. Well, some people collect metamorphic rocks. I just find tapes more practical. See over there? I interviewed this whole slew of unmarried mothers. And you know what? I turned it in for my graduation thesis in sociology for Professor Reed, and I got an A-double-plus. And then I taped Professor Reed. [MUSIC PLAYS OVER SPEAKERS] I have 30 in that category now. [SIGHS] Subject clearly heterosexual. This goes on during? After a while, you won't even notice. [♪♪♪] SYBIL: Manual stimulation beginning. Erogenous zone responding. Tactile stimulation increasing. Sublingual glands secreting. Goose pimples, extensive. Intense empathic reaction. Muscular tension mounting. Oh, you sweet baby, you. My tape recorder. What? I've gotta get my tape recorder. Oh, my God. Well, we're all specialists. Maybe they'll let us practice down in Yucatán. Very funny. If we don't give Mort Dellman his $100,000, we can't stay here. I just don't understand how Paul could've done this to the clinic. Don't blame him. Might have been any one of us. Oh, lay off that stuff. It's true. With Lorrie and her 11th commandment, "screw thy neighbor." Who's got that kind of money lying around? We can sell our investments. Just because you analysts make a big, fat fee every hour on the hour. Fat fees, big investments. What do you know about my welfare patients? What do you know about alimony and child support? All right, damn it, let's get back to the point. If we can't ante it personally, we can get the corporation to float a bank loan. Do we pay the blackmail or tell him to go to hell? I think we gotta pay the bastard. What else can we do? I'll stop by the City National in the morning. Now she's got 31 in this category. I'd be the 32. Before she graduates, she'll have every MD in the place raped and taped. [SIGHS] [CASS ELLIOT'S "THE COSTUME BALL" PLAYING ON STEREO] ♪ Oh, how you'll love The world they will show you ♪ ♪ Magic chandeliers Softly hide the years ♪ ♪ And the costume ball Goes on and on ♪ Maggie. ♪ And on and on ♪ Maggie. ♪ And on every clock ♪ ♪ The hands never meet ♪ Maggie? ♪ This is a ball ♪ ♪ Where midnight is missing ♪ ♪ At masquerades The kisses are sweet ♪ Maggie! ♪ You never know ♪ ♪ Whose lips you are kissing ♪ ♪ Someone is giving A costume ball ♪ ♪ Someone's depending ♪ ♪ On us to be there ♪ It's me. [BEER CAN OPENS] [COUGHING] What the hell? ♪ It's not very far Just come as you are ♪ [GASPING] ♪ Even when the music ♪ ♪ And the dancers All are gone... ♪ I could have got out. What'd you have to come barging in here like the happy lifeguard for? Ruined all your clothes. Are you kidding? I happened to be driving by. [COUGHING] Otherwise, you'd be dead. Well, maybe I would've been happy. I doubt it. Dead's not what it's cracked up to be. Come on, let's get inside. Oh, please. Will you just leave me alone, Joe? Let's go, Maggie. It's cold out here. And why are all the lights on? It's like the aurora borealis. Hey, what do you mean, you happened to be driving by? This isn't on the way to your place. Well, I drive by every night. Why, Joe? You know, before we got married, we used to talk to each other. You remember? About every damn subject in the world. Even the ones I didn't understand. Then, all of a sudden, we kind of ran out of words. Yeah, I remember. Come on, let's get you inside. PETE: Don't nag, Helen. It's just that a girl has junk dumped on her coffee table, she gets, like, inquisitive. When you found the others gone, what did you tell her? [SIGHS] Nothing. Oh, don't be a mommy, Pete. No, that's... I... I didn't tell her anything. Pete... Look, Helen, I... I came here to think, not to talk. I should have spent the night at the hospital with Jerry. Thank you. What turned you off, Joe? You were drunk, Maggie. What made me drink? Maybe I did. Oh, no. It was my fault. Can't something be somebody else's fault? Think maybe I... I should stop being a nut? Maybe see an analyst? Yeah. Joe. You can stay an hour. But then you have to go right home. She couldn't find the Percodan, so she decided that morphine would be more effective. It was effective, all right. What makes you so sure this only started last night? It was last night. But if five of them are missing, then-- Don't nag, Helen. Don't nag. My guess is she hid the others. For use when needed. Morphine is a depressant, doctor. Or it can remove inhibitions in one out of a hundred, especially when laced with champagne. Keep going. That's right. Last night. [BEER CAN OPENS] Well, heh... Well, for years I've heard about this... This shatter-proof dame. So she's not. Well, no woman is. It's just a front we put up to keep you from walking all over us. Did Jerry build this? You leave it alone. He hasn't finished it yet. Okay. How was it after the long drought? You wanna know? No. You wanna know. No, no, no. Well, it was Mohammadan. It was the Arabian Nights. Okay, that does it! Oh, you are really some help! Help? Help? You're just not with it. I don't appreciate your sleeping with your wife! [BOTH LAUGHING] [SIGHS] [CHUCKLES] What are you doing? Come on, put that down. What--? What the hell? Give me that. Come on. No. No. No. Come on. Give it to me. Give it to me. Give it to me. No, I just wanted to see if it would make me feel Arabic. [BOTH LAUGHING] Oh, Pete, that's so bitchy. Oh, I like to laugh at you. I like to get mad at you. I like to bring my problems to you. I rely on you, Helen. That's a man saying goodbye to his mistress. Oh, I know how you feel. I feel the same way myself. You go on, Pete. You finish your beer, and then you shove off. Godspeed. Wait a minute. Let me tell you something. I've been kidding myself all along. For years, I had this nutty idea that someday she would push you too far. That this town was sophisticated enough to accept you and me, out in the open. Don't bring that into it. Well, no more. Now it's conformity time. Every husband, including you, is going back to his wife. Heh, for a while. Isn't it late to accuse me of something like that? I knew it. I knew it this morning. There was something in you-- Something... Yes, and Amy's learned to like it. And I don't care for this to be a place for you to think. You think with her. Oh, my God. All women are alike. I've had affairs before you, and I'll have affairs after you. Jezebel? Isn't that a little outdated? Yeah, well, she was a determined dame too. And I'm determined, Pete. I'm quitting. I'm going away somewhere. I don't know where. I don't know what the hell I'm gonna do. I'd like to get married again to someone who isn't married. Ah, come on, now. No, no. I'll meet someone who's attractive and that I like. And he'll make me stop working and-- Will he make you stop loving me? Oh... [♪♪♪] I don't like you gentle. Will you please go home? Helen-- Go home, Pete. [♪♪♪] Stand by here. Let's go. Thank you for coming. It's kind of you. You win. Jake. Where are Sharon and Stella? I ruled out their attendance. You're right, I suppose. They're impressionable. My reason is sounder. I don't want them ever to look at your face again. That can be arranged. It took a funeral to get her sober. No it didn't, honey. It took a good lay with my ex. Shall we bow our heads and have a few moments of silent prayer? AMY: I suppose I owe her something at that. Maybe if she hadn't mentioned that outrageous scheme at the club, I'd... I'd never... Maybe it never would've happened with Pete and me. DELLA: No rain. The radio said rain. Mustn't rain. Don't want to despond. Want to play. Damn Lorrie. Goddamn Lorrie. MAGGIE: I bet it'll be a lousy eulogy. All he needs to say is Mrs. Dellman had a lovely bedside manner. ELAINE: And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those... Lorrie, you always had such style. No wonder the men.... JERRY: No! [JERRY GROANING] Jerry? [WHIMPERING] Jerry, honey, stop. To conclude the services, I will read from the 42nd psalm. "As the hart panteth after the water brooks--" May I see Dr. Brennan? "As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come..." Would you step in? No, no. I'll wait here. "My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, 'Where is thy God?' When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me. For I had gone with a multitude. I went with them to the house of God. with a voice of joy and praise with a multitude..." Pete, it's Jerry. I tried to phone, but... "...cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted in me?" [CROWD MURMURING] "Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance." BARNEY: Yes, well, we've located the trouble. A wide-based aneurism in the brain. Unusual in a child. HELEN: It's very large. Let's hope the dome isn't as weak as it appears. Let me see that. Oh, Pete, please, not today. Not-- This could turn into a massive hemorrhage. We can't delay. I'm sorry. PENFIELD: Why wouldn't this be a case for that ferromagnetic thrombosis technique? DEEMSTER: You wouldn't be pushing brain tissue and blood vessels aside. Magnetic thrombosis has its advantages, but... But what? But it's not established procedure. Dellman uses it, doesn't he? Yes. Mort's a big experimental type. But I don't believe in crossing against the traffic lights. Ever. Oh, my God. [CROWD APPLAUDING] WOMAN: Good putt. MAN: Great. WOMAN: Oh, man! MAN: That girl is terrific. You'll sign that first. "The provisions of this document take effect upon receipt of a cashier's check for $250,000." You understand the provisions? My grandchildren's surname will be changed to Porter. Mm-hm. You're not in any shape or form to communicate with them ever again. I can read. [TYPEWRITER KEYS CLACKING] Dr. Brennan, can I help you? Oh, yes. Uh, I'd like to speak to you for a minute. Privately. Well, I'm in a meeting here. I want you to spring Mort Dellman for a few hours. You want me to what? Under police escort. Look, it'd save time if I could explain this to you both together. Just believe me, it's important. All right, doctor, you can talk to him. The line forms on the right. I'm tired of treating this man like he's royalty. He's taken over the conference room and made it into his private office. Excuse me for interrupting, Mr. Porter, but, uh, Dr. Brennan... [CROWD EXCLAIMS, APPLAUDS] [CROWD GROANS, MURMURING] Considering the details you've given me... yes, it would definitely lower the risk. And coating it, which is the only alternative, would take four times as long. A scrub team's waiting. How about it? Hmph, I can see the headlines: "DA demands death penalty for doctor who saves child." The hell with that. This man committed a murder. I'm gonna get a conviction. PETE: There'll be no publicity. I give you my word. No reporters, no crowds? Nothing. Just bring him in and out the car at a street entrance. All right. I'll take your word. I'll have to get a court order. But don't you think for one moment this lets you off the hook, Dellman. The unwritten law doesn't work for a husband who has known about his wife's activities. Mr. Porter, are you finished? No, not quite. Pete, who's the anesthetist? Long. Penfield's on x-ray. Pictures are good. The unjust part is that he was given the genius to save lives. I wasn't given it, Jake. I earned it. I have the character to step over the line... Character? ...to try out new concepts. You disgrace the word. Let's get the hell out of here. You know, I haven't said I'd do it. How can you not do it? Oh, I haven't said I wouldn't. If it's the business of when you get the clinic money, any time you want it. I assumed that. How long does it take that plane of yours to fly to Mexico City? Four hours, why? What's that got to do with it? No longer? You're certain? Four hours and 20 minutes at most. It's no more than 20 minutes from the hospital to that airport, right? What's the point? It can work. I can make the flight Lorrie and I took this spring: 8:30, Mexico City to Madrid. Look, the operation will require 45 minutes. That puts me out by 3:30. You have your plane and pilot ready to take off at 4:00. Climb down off the wall. That's what I count on, that neither you nor Douglas could conceive such a stunt for a moment. I'll be damned if I take a chance with some jury if I can get away now. Leave your key in your car. I'll need $5000 at the plane, medium-sized bills. Send the balance, a draft, in my name to the Antra Bank in Beirut. You do the same with the clinic money. I won't let you slam through this operation. I've completed it in that time before. I'll do everything I can for him. How much is he getting from you? A hundred thousand. A joke. A crumb next to what was in your will! Pete, you'll assist me. I'll need you close by when I finish. And, Jake, I hate to trouble you further, but my passport in the top drawer of my desk at home, have it at the airport. How do you know I cut you out of my will? How do you think? Lorrie told me, laughing her sadistic head off about it, taunting me over it. That was less than a week ago. As she taunted me over the man she had that day over all the men she had! They buried her today! I didn't plan it, but I'm glad I did it. I'm gonna get what I can out of it. Jake! Jake! Well, what do you say? If we don't... you'd let a child die? Hippocrates won't haunt me. Use Barney Harris. He's a competent surgeon. Let's go his route, Jake. You can't mean that. PETE: It's a question of priorities. The child comes first. Stop to consider what you're saying. To become involved in a criminal act-- I've considered. You'll risk jail? You'd ask me to risk jail? I hope I'd ask this for any child. I don't believe you're responsible for the boy. The boy's mother-- I know. She's your head nurse, but... She's a lot more than that to me, Jake. Help us. You're probably the only man in town who doesn't know. [DISCO MUSIC PLAYING ON RECORD] [DOOR CLOSES] Her beat is miserable. [VOLUME INCREASES] What are they called? The Purple Indifference. Ah. Are you taking the day off? No, I have to get back to the hospital. But you took the time off to watch me make a fool of myself. Didn't you? Didn't you? [YELLS] Didn't you, Dave? [MUSIC STOPS] I thought we'd do well to get this thing settled before we had a chance to think about it. You arrogant, superior bastard. What do you want, a separation or a divorce? What's better for the income tax? Separation. All right. Do I need a lawyer? Not unless you want one. Oh. Anyhow, you're too bloody civilized to be unfair. The kids are mine. Gonna have to figure out a way to tell them. You cool, superior bastard, you. Your idea of a discussion is to shove somebody around. You tell the boys, and I'll tell Carol. Will you please send Billy an extra 5 bucks? He hates the food up there, and he's living on candy bars. Well, it's better than pot. What the hell are you hanging around for? I want a tub and a drink, and I have nothing more to say. Haven't you? Thought perhaps you had. Had what? Whatever it is that's literally destroying you. Telling readiness. I thought perhaps you've reached it. It's like reading readiness in a child. You've got a term. You've got a goddamn bloody term for everything! I'd like you to answer one question. Do you love me? Rather... Did you ever love me? That's the same question. What's the opposite of love? Hate or indifference? Indifference is the death of love. [LORRIE CHUCKLING] [LORRIE LAUGHING] DELLA: I told her to stop. It was a cinder, I think. You and Mort and all of you were away at that medical convention in Detroit. Three years now. She was laughing away. The movie. I didn't... And she laughed and laughed and-- She said, "Go to the bedroom and lie down," and she'd get it out. Well, it hurt. You know how it is when you get a really bad one in your eye, a cinder or a bit of dust. The way she touched me... It was a hot night, and I... I wore a thin blouse and no bra. I was lying there so grateful it was out of my eye. It must have flown in through the window as we drove back. And I remember she said: "Some people are stage struck, some are clothes struck... and I'm sex struck." She was folding back my eyelid with a matchstick. We'd had dinner at the Poor Man's Pub and then the movie. She went into the bathroom for the-- For the eye drops... and I was lying there in the bed. I told her to stop. Chicken. She said I was chicken. Kept stroking my face. It seemed so natural. Not at all ugly. And there was this crazy sort of half-slip she had on. It-- It had cherubs on it. That is funny. That is pretty funny. I wanted her to touch me. Just that. Just that then. Never after, even though she tried. Just once. Once only. Only that night. Came back without her dress. Cherubs with makeup on their faces. Lipstick and rouge. I hated her! Hated her every minute since. She... touched my shoulder with her tongue, lying next to me, remembering the movie and laughing about it. She touched me so gently... along my leg. Kissed me. It was wonderful, Dave. It was wonderful. No, Dave! No, I-- I tried to tell you! A hundred times, I did, but I don't know! I started waiting to-- Oh, Dave, I tried to tell you! [SOBBING] Oh, Dave! Dave! Dave! Hitting people with newspapers. We'll have to see somebody about that. It's a bad habit. Don't break it. I'm sorry, but the gallery will be closed this afternoon. Standard operating procedure, sir. It's Dr. Brennan's rule that any student-- Dr. Douglas is making the rules today, miss. It's an outrage. Oh, well, I'm barred from there myself. I'm gonna write a letter to the surgeon general. I think you should. Would you help me draft it? Sure. Maybe tonight at my place? Uh, no. I can't. I got a date with my wife. Damn! What's the matter, babe? Well, I may never have another chance to tape a magnetic thrombosis operation. Say, about this tape archive, what are they for? Well, I promised them to Yale for their time capsule. That should do it. Good. Well, I'll just double check. It isn't necessary. What's the time, sergeant? Three after 3:00. Let's get on with it. But, doctor... it won't take five minutes to confirm the location. The measurements are exact. Well, we triple checked it in the Stuart case. Recheck, doctor. Gentlemen, I'm in charge here. If you take any unnecessary risks... Pete, I know what I'm doing. I'll finish it properly and be out of here by 3:30 if you-- [HEART MONITOR BEEPING AND RESPIRATOR HISSING] Ferromagnetic thrombosis. What--? No, that's just a technical name for the process. He takes powdered iron, mixes it with serum, makes into a sludgy form. Well, that comes toward the end. Before that, Dellman must make exact calculations of various angles and lay out a path in the brain, almost like a pilot using a radar beam for an instrument landing. And rest assured, he's an expert, one of the few surgeons who performs this operation. Now, he'll insert the hollow steel probe with a magnet at its end along the path he's worked out. Obviously, the angle and depth must be correct to the fraction of a millimeter. Then he'll push a needle through the probe. When he does that, there may be a spurt of blood, which means the tip of the needle is where it should be. He'll then inject the sludgy iron solution through the needle, it clings to the magnet and permanently seals the aneurysm. X-ray. Get the iron solution ready. PAUL: Why did I do it? Is that all you wanted to know? I can't imagine what got into me. I just stopped by to leave off a drug sample for a skin ailment Lorrie said she had. Did she ask you to drop it off? And then you stayed for a drink. And, uh, she was wearing a miniskirt, which got oh-so-much mini-er when she sat down. And there was nothing underneath. Are you saying I was roped in? Like a baby calf just turned 50. [DOOR OPENS] ELAINE: Sorry I'm late, dear. I thought I'd freshen up a bit. Paul, in my professional opinion, your marriage is reasonably secure. [HEART MONITOR BEEPING AND RESPIRATOR HISSING] What's keeping Penfield? He's coming now. Probe seems to be in good position. It's in perfect position. I came to see Pete. They told me he was in the operating room with your little boy. He's very fond of him. Yes, I know. Is he Pete's child? No. I'm glad. I'm sorry. I wish he were. You needn't have bothered to come. It's finished. Even if I could have him, it's finished. When this is over... I'm leaving here. Even if he loves you? You're not at all what I thought you'd be. You really need him. More than you do. He does love me. And I love him. I love just being here, working with him. No. No, I won't quit. I-- I'd be-- I'd be a fool to quit. Need isn't everything. To Pete, it is. Then I'll be his girl. Or his shoulder. Whatever he wants me to be. You won't be his wife. [INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE] Start the funnel. [WHIRRING SOFTLY] X-ray. The monitor looks all right, but I'd like to see the actual film. You'll wait to see the film. It'll show exactly what you've seen. I was on target every step. That's not confirmed. Pete, I've saved the boy's life. [♪♪♪] DOCTOR: ...she's had any bleeding. We have to consider the possibility of gastric ulcer. What's her hemoglobin and hematocrit today? The report should've been in by noon. What the hell is going on up there? Maybe it's on her chart. Give the floor a ring. No, let's go up. I'll need to leave some orders anyway. How are the vital signs? Stable. Is there something wrong? No. It's all right. Mike, who were you out with on Thursday...? Monday. How can I remember that? Why? That's why. Take a look. [LAUGHING] Oh, the poetic justice. Casanova's got the clap. Well, that's fine. Looks perfect. You can close, doctor. Call Mrs. Straughn and tell her the boy's all right. Certainly. Think the kid will make it, doc? Yeah. Yeah, he's fine. Dellman almost through? Yeah. Interesting operation. Tell me, Dellman, how long do you keep the tube in the boy's head? Just long enough for a permanent clot to form, and it's removed in a simple operation. Within a few months, you won't even notice the scar. DOUGLAS: Operator, give me police headquarters. [♪♪♪] [SIREN BLARING] [SIRENS WAILING] [♪♪♪] [LORRIE LAUGHING] [CROWD MURMURING] Thank you for trying, doctor. You added one more count to the indictment. Seems I made a mistake. I trusted you. You want me to go along? Tomorrow morning would do. Be at my office at 9:00. And I always believed doctors were special, a breed of their own. No. No, we're not. We're like lawyers. You'll need this, Pete. Boy all right? Yeah, he's fine. Good. Jake... thanks. [♪♪♪] [SYBIL READING ON-SCREEN TEXT] SYBIL: I don't know why, but I keep forgetting her name. Glory, wasn't it? LEW: No, no. Lorrie. SYBIL: I mean, she was unlucky. But that was a special case, doctor. Do you know what I've decided to do? I've decided to give up my studies and concentrate on marrying an MD. I mean, their wives have such advantages. Those beautiful homes and cars and that country club. Are you saying you...? Are you going to give up your, uh... research? Oh, no, never. I mean, I have so much more at stake now. Subject number 32, Lew-- What was your name again? Saunders. Lew Saunders. ♪ Someone is giving ♪ ♪ A costume ball ♪ ♪ Someone's depending ♪ ♪ On us to be there ♪ ♪ It's not very far ♪ ♪ Just come as you are ♪ ♪ Even when the music ♪ ♪ And the dancers All are gone ♪ ♪ The costume ball Goes on and on ♪ ♪ The costume ball ♪ ♪ Goes on ♪