Transcript for Sell/Buy/Date (2022) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- [horns honking] Hi. I'm Sarah Jones. That's the poster for my show, "Sell/Buy/Date." I play characters from different backgrounds based on people from my real life. They've taken me to some pretty incredible places as a performer and playwright. In fact, last night at my closing night party, I found out the dream I've always had for this play that means so much to me is finally coming true. I get to turn it into a movie, which is just the good news I've been hoping for since lately, I've been kind of a mess, and my characters have become frighteningly real. -Knock, knock. -[switch clicks] What? What time is it? Good morning, sleepyhead. ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ Uh, everything's fine. It's not as bad as it looks. [toilet flushing] Sounds pretty bad. Now I know why you missed that movie announcement event this morning. You know, your mom came all the way to the city just to surprise you. Oh, my God. Are you serious, Lorraine? Please, that's just the beginning. Talk about drama. But this is what happens when you don't check your phone. -It's--It's dead. -Oh, my. I hope you enjoyed the show last night. [whispers] Can you please? [normal voice] Um, thank you so--I'll text you later. -He's new. -Can you just...please. What was he, um, Middle Eastern? [whispers] I can't deal with it right now. It's like the United Nations with her. [clears throat] That is, like, a total microaggression, Lorraine. [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ I'm sorry. My goodness. Microaggression. Right. I know that. It's the racism. -Part of the racism. -Yes. It is a huge part of the racism. -[whispers] Oh, my God. -Can you hear me now? Okay, what about now? Is that better? Oh, my God. Does anybody have a signal in here? [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ -No? Hi. Hello? -These phones. They're all very obsessed with the phone. Can you hear me now? Yep, my characters have a lot of opinions. But onstage in my play, they help me share different sides of a topic that's not often talked about--the sex industry. -[record needle scratches] -I know. Not necessarily a typical night at the theater, but we had such great audiences, and now I can't wait to hear what the whole world will think. [under breath] It's happening. Lorraine, we are, like, legit in crisis right now. Did you, like, not even try to take her phone before she went in the bathroom? Why would I grab her phone? She cannot see what people are saying on social media right now. [messaging blooping] Protestors? [blooping continues] [beep] [protestors shouting indistinctly] [sound glitches] What? No, no, no. What? There's... Uh, message, message. Okay. NORA: I'm sure you've probably heard by now. It's so wild, them saying you're a danger to women. -Danger? -But don't worry. We'll deal with it. Just wash your face. Just clean your face. Everything's better when you clean your face. Everything's better if you just clean... What? Ew! Oh. [toothbrush whirring] Ugh! [sighs] It's terrible. I can't load anything. Sarah, I really need to talk to you. I can--Bella, please, not right now. I know. Rashid, can you just meet me at the curb? Don't let the cops move you. Rashid. Okay, just give me one second. Wait. Is that my Tony? I've been looking for that. What? Your Tony? That's debatable. You call it a one-person show, but really, we do all the work. -Okay. And now everybody's mad at us. Okay, I am trying to tell you do not check Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, or TikTok. Just turn off all your notifications. -I don't-- -Okay, none of this is moving us any closer to Queens. What? What? Why are we going to Queens? Uh, less questions, more apúrate, please. -Yeah. Let's just go. -Oh. Okay. I'm coming. I don't--Lorraine, okay, first of all, you're stealing. I don't understand. We did the play for six months. -Come on, Lorraine. -You guys! Not a peep. No controversy. Can somebody please tell me what is happening right now? ♪♪♪ [bell dinging] ♪♪♪ This is so ridiculous. I don't even know where we're going. Okay, first of all, I did tell Sarah Jones, if you're gonna write a play about sex work, you're probably gonna get some backlash. I mean, it--it just-- it could be bad. I know, that's why we're trying to get her out of here. Are--Are you listening to me? [horn honks] And now if "Sell/Buy/Date" becomes a movie, millions of people, 'cause, like-- It's not about millions of people. The crisis is Sarah Jones. Look at her life. She's so busy trying to be the wokest and please everybody that her play has now pissed off everybody. Plus, she's in a dead-end relationship with her manager, where they're both just using each other. I mean, it's like, what are you supposed to say to somebody... -ROBERT: Hey, babe. I'm guessing you're going through it right now, but it could also be a good thing, right? Any press is good press. Anyway, I was planning to keep covering your rent, but, uh, my new girlfr-- -[beep] It's like come on, Sarah. This is not that hard. If she keeps going like this, she's just gonna end up a has-been. Well, really, more like a should've been that never was. I also think she's probably grieving her sister since it's coming up on Naomi's anniversary. And it's affecting everything else. I mean, it's just like... [continues indistinctly] Come on. If this guy, at least if you're gonna-- You know what I mean? Yeah. -[clears throat] -Lorraine, I'm sorry, Mama. I brought the bag myself, sweetheart. -Okay. I got it. I got it. -I'm not an invalid, you know. [clears throat] -Let's go. -Okay, okay. Okay. -Come on. Let's go! -Okay. Oh, my God. -Ow. -Stop. My phone is always dead, and I'm trying to-- Do you seriously think I can fit in that spot? -Forget it. -Can you move over, please? Thank you. -[sighs] -Okay, look. I know everybody's upset. I mean, not just us. Everybody on both sides of this debate. Is sex work empowering? Is it exploitation? There's no way to win. So, Sarah Jones, we've pooled our money, which is really the last of your money, and we're getting you off the grid so you can-- Wait, Nereida. I really appreciate this. I'm sorry I have been such a mess, and now it seems like overnight, everything's a shitnado, even though I still don't understand exactly what's going on. Have you seen the tweets? What do I need, a bodyguard now? Lorraine, please. Sarah, just ignore that. Look, your phone is dead. Take it as a sign, okay? Yo, I just wanna say for myself, as a dude... ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ You feel me? It wasn't easy being in that play. I think you mad brave just for writing a show about prostitution. I mean, sex work. I mean, commercial sexual exploitation. Whatever. I know everybody got their own words for it, their own opinions. I'm saying I agree with Nereida, Sarah Jones. You need to take care of you right now. Unh-unh. Don't be touching my waters or my gum. You know that's for paying customers only. -Whatever. -Thanks, Rashid. Even though I kind of feel like I don't know how to take care of anything right now, but I know somebody who does, and she happens to live right by the airport. ♪♪♪ I just wanna say, I think you're doing the right thing. You know, sometimes you just need your mother, help you come home to yourself. Yeah. I mean, I don't even have a home. -Robert's kicking me out. -Wait. What? [sighs] Ay, Dios. Your mom's coming. Don't worry about that. I'll take your bag in. Okay, baby, thanks. ♪♪♪ [bell dings] Hey, Sarah. Hi, Mom. Aw. You look like you could use some endorphins. Let's go for a walk. Tell me what's going on. I don't-- I don't know yet myself. Everything just seems really complicated. Complicated? You sound like Robert. No, it's not just him. I know. I still have a bad feeling about that guy. But, Mom, he didn't mean to snub you. It was one time, like, five years ago. And how is he supposed to know you're my mother? It's not exactly obvious. You know... [chuckles] I was trying to explain to him about how until I was, like, 8 years old, I didn't know you weren't white. It's not something that comes up in conversation. Well, I mean-- You know, it just never came up in conversation. My mom is a mix of Irish and German. We have both Christians and Jews on that side, and her father was a dark-skinned Black man with Caribbean roots. I always tell people if you wanna understand why I do my characters, come have Thanksgiving with my family. Yeah, turkey and gelfite fish. [laughs] Mom, you're like a comedian. I should have gotten the other flavor. I think I got distracted, though, because that guy was so creepy. At least we got these drinks for free. He was just trying to be complimentary. First of all, he's an old white man. He called me exotic. It's like a thing for them. It's like a-a fetish thing. -Fetish thing. -Yeah. Yeah, I-I get it. I get it. Part of the reason I wrote "Sell/Buy/Date" in the first place is stuff like that. It sounds so small. It's not. Yeah, but it's like people can't be attracted to one another anymore. You know, you can't compliment somebody, buy them a drink. Mm, it's more like some people make other people objects. Then they think they should be able to buy that. You know? -Yeah. -I mean, like, okay. As women, we all know sex sells from the time we're little. Even the Barbie doll was originally based on a German prostitute around World War II. Since women have historically had less rights, money, and power, our being sex objects for men has been totally normalized, and with all the stuff we grew up on, now it's even more confusing since we can also derive power from our own sexuality, and we should. But it's a complex thing. [sighs deeply] Have you been thinking about Naomi lately? Yeah. You know, her anniversary's coming up. There's been so much going on, I guess I haven't really been tracking. Well, you don't have to track. You--You get the emails I send every year. But I know you don't check 'em. I'm sorry. Well, from now on, it's gonna pop up automatically. You're gonna get it on your calendar every year. -Okay, all right. -Automatic. [laughs] Thanks, Mom. Do you still have the letters and Naomi's journal that I sent you? Yeah, I just...I haven't been able to read them yet, but I-I-I will. -Okay. -At some point, you know? All right. Can I try some of your tea? -Sure. -You wanna try this? It's not...That's what happens when you let a gross old man buy you a drink. [chuckles] Mmm. -This is not bad. -Yeah, it's okay. I didn't know how to tell my mom, but I've been carrying Naomi's journal around with me for three years, and I don't think I'm ever gonna be ready to read it. There's always just too much going on. [messaging bloops] [beep] REPORTER: A-list celebrities backing out of "Sell/Buy/Date" film amidst outrage. We have all the latest-- [sighs] [crunching] [messaging bloops] [knock on door] [door squeaks] -Oh, my God. How are you? -Hey, what is happening? My God. You're... ♪♪♪ [bell dings] -Is this your mom's place? -Yeah. -Afro-centric. -I know. Yeah, she's-- All right. Let's get me to a-- Oh, my God. You're so pregnant! Oh, God. I know. This is--it's--it's-- Okay, it's not... [scoffs] Um... -[laughs] -So it's not... it's fine. It's fine, it's fine, it's fine. -Ilana. -So what-- What's--what's going on? I'm-- This is one of the worst experiences I've ever had as a person, and you understand all sides of this. You know what it is to be an artist, and you're politically all the way out there, and I tried to do that with this, and somehow I stepped into the middle of a war. [sighs] Let me-- Let me step it back. I-I have to understand this. People love the show. They loved it when it was live. What is the backlash? They don't even know what it is yet. Well, I've tried to present in the play a whole bunch of points of view, and I had sex workers reach out and say, "Thank you for telling this part of our story." I had people who are anti-sex work reach out and say, "Thank you for presenting our ideas." It's only now that people who don't know me, the first thing you see when you Google me is, "Producers leave in outrage, controversy. Sarah Jones is violent against women." -I'm not violent. -Violent, no. The violence really bothers me. I'm just, like, you're not violent. That's-- I can't even fight. I literally can't. -Yeah, I believe that. -I can't fight. -I believe that. -I've tr--I wanna-- -I'm like, uhh. -I absolutely believe you. You can't represent everything. You're not a politician. I mean, I get that art and policy are actually becoming increasingly intertwined and that artists are representatives of the people in a way, but this has gone too far. Can you tell that to the internet, please? -Because-- -No, the internet's a toilet full of, like, trolls, like, swirling around. I'm doing--they're swirling around the toilet. It's awful. I am doubting myself, and I don't wanna be violent. It's only in your power to hold your shape and go forward. But what does that mean, Ilana? Like-- This is what I mean. You know you're not violent toward women. Yes, I do know that. You seem to be doing fine. [laughs] Yeah. That's--That's what I mean about holding your shape. You know you're not violent towards women. I just feel like do I go away? Like, I don't wanna hide, but I ca--I'm... You not doing it-- if you're gonna shut this all down, then the conversation doesn't open up. But for you to open it up into its natural complexities, I think you can do that and I actually think you must. -Sorry. -Mm-hmm. No? SARAH: It's harder to hold your own shape when after months of performing, you haven't been taking care of yourself. In fact, we're all due for a doctor's visit. Be careful, Lorraine. Hi. Sarah Jones for Dr. Doroshenko. [telephone rings] [indistinct conversations] Hi. Are--Are you Sarah? Uh, yeah. [laughs] Yes. Hi. -You mind if I can... -No, sure. -Of course not. -Okay. -It's just... -[laughs] Just wanted to let you know I recognized you. Oh, my God. That's really sweet. Sorry. What's your name? -Tish. -Tish. Thank you, Tish. ♪♪♪ [bell dings] I was like, oh, God, is she gonna throw something at me? 'Cause it's been a little challenging, so I'm kinda laying low. I know there's a lot of haterade or negative things being said about you, but I wanna let you know that it means a lot to us, and those of us that are, you know, unfortunately or fortunately still walking in that life. Are you saying that you-- you've actually have lived experience yourself? Yes. I've...made exchanges to be able to eat and pay my bills. Seeing that play and the fact that you're making it into a movie, it just made me think back to my first experience of actually making the decision to...sell my body. How old were you? 17. I was a senior in high school. I had a teacher who was obviously older than I was. He was a white man. He knew that I came from a broken home. So, uh, he made it a point to, uh, make me feel special in class. And, uh... the admiration and attention that I got from him, uh, was more than I was getting at home. It started out where he took me to the movies, bought me makeup. [clears throat] He told me that if I actually... had sex with him, that he would pay me money. He would give me $100. Um...during the course of our relationship, I ended up getting the $100 every time we had sex. I had the keys to his apartment. I had the keys to his car. How did this all feel as a young girl, as a Black girl? It felt like a transaction. It felt like he really liked what we were doing, and he was willing to pay for it as long as I kept it a secret, and, um, I just learned to detach from it. I learned to not feel. You--You just learn how to be a toy. You know, I can't speak for everybody. There are some people who do choose it. But a lot of us didn't choose this. A lot of us didn't have self-esteem or self-respect or know that we were more. I'm just really happy that I had this opportunity to kinda reflect, you know, about some of those things. You--we try to hide those things. We try to repress those things, you know? Uh, but those things are the situations that make us who we are now, and that's so important that-- that you have to keep going with this. Thanks, Tish. I'm--I'm gonna try. I will. I really--I'll try. Ms. Roberts? Thank you again. It was so nice to meet you. ♪♪♪ [track rattling] My head is still spinning from meeting Tish. Stories like hers are part of the reason I wrote my play in the first place, and I know she wants me to keep going, but just trying to make it into a movie has turned "Sell/Buy/Date" into a war zone. Now I'm just waiting to hear if my green light has officially turned cancelation red, or is there still any hope left? [cellphone chimes] Ooh. [bloop] "Excited to move forward." "Excited to move forward"! All right. I can do this. This is not a problem. [messaging chiming] Oh, my God. That is just... unnecessarily mean. [chime] I'm not a SWERF. [chime] Okay. "I don't hate you." That's nice. [chiming continues] Can I get to Astoria right now? Even if she doesn't hate me, I can't say I'm looking forward to this. I just hope she doesn't call me a SWERF. [click] [bell dings] ♪♪♪ [knock on door] [singsongy] Come in. Hi, Lotus. [laughs] -Come in. -Okay. [laughs] I feel like I've been called into the principal's office. -It's been a day. -Yeah, I saw. I know. Part of me is like, this is so awkward, and now I'm here with you. I'm like, why does this have to be so painful if we could just sit together? Like, I'm following you on the Gram, and I just agree with so much of what you're saying. Aw, well, thank you. You know what? I looked at your Instagram, too, and you think the same way that I do about all of these really major issues, but I get why all those girls kinda got on you, and the real thing is, is you're about to get yourself canceled. -Mm. What? -You are an outsider. You're what we call a civilian. You do not understand what it is we go through to be telling our stories. So are you open to actually learning? I can show you where people have messed up. -Okay. -People that have tried have walked all over us and portrayed us in this light that continues to feed the stereotype of negative ideas of what sex work is and what we are as sex workers. Oh, my God. I can't believe these are even real. Yeah, it's time after time after time. Prostitution. Hey, Daddy. You want a date with Mama? The ladies and I were just watching "Jack and Jill," and it's--it's just awful. It's unwatchable. But you know, they're hookers, so it's fine. Whoa! You got a dead hooker in the trunk. I've never seen so many dead hookers in all my life! Okay, so you see what I'm saying? Me so horny. It's like they're culturally appropriating our own stories, our own lives. We live this. I just don't want anybody mistaking me for that when I haven't even put the movie out yet. You have to let sex workers speak for themselves. We know what we're talking about. You don't have to speak over us. You don't have to have someone else that's speaks better or more eloquently say it for us. There are some people who would say don't even try to make the movie 'cause I don't have lived experience. The thing is, we need our allies. Many people want to push allies to the side if they don't get things right the first time, and the moment you make a mistake, then you're done. People need time to learn new things and grow, and if after that, they don't show growth, that's, I think, when the cancelation may come into--to play, but in the meantime, we really need to be a little bit more forgiving and open to people's journeys because we don't wake up with the same exact knowledge on sex work or any kind of subject, for that matter, so we just need to give people the ability to grow and learn. -All right. -[laughs] I hope you don't mind if I keep in touch with you, because... -No. I do wanna get it right. I know how hard it is to get this kind of opportunity, so I don't want it to be fucked up for you. I don't want an opportunity like this to be slapped in your face and have a bunch of negative criticism, so I really come from a place of, like, we gotta stick together and, like, making these stories be the best that we can. -That's real. [laughs] -Oh, my God. -I kind of love you. -[laughs] All right, we gotta take a picture together. -All right. [laughs] -You know what I mean? I swear I'm not culturally appropriating unless you let me have the suit. -I'm gonna have to pose us. -Okay, okay, okay, okay, ok The suit, though. Just tell me, um-- -Oh, you like this? [laughs] -Yeah. Hello! -Ready? -Oh, my goodness. -Ah! -Ah! [camera shutter clicks] ♪♪♪ -Hi, Mom. -Hi, listen. I just heard from a patient that she saw you on social media with someone named Lois Lane. -Lotus Lain. -I know who she is. I Googled her. She's a porn star. -She's a sex work advocate. -She was wearing a strap-on. Oh, my God, Mom. You're shaming her. This is exactly why she has to be an advocate in the first place. -Well, I just hope you know what you're getting yourself into. I'm so glad you had the good sense not to do that movie. Actually, Mom, I am making the movie. In fact, I just got off the phone with the studio, and they're excited. They think the controversy could be a great thing. I-I don't care what they think. You wanna be all Hollywood, but you're not considering how this affects the rest of your family. Mom, what I'm considering is how some members of this family shame the rest of us. I have my own experience. I have the right to share my truth any way I want to. God! Well, if you wanna drag us into this mess, you can find another place to stay. Anyway, I'm getting tired of being your Mom B&B. Sex worker--can you put that on your taxes now? I mean it as a serious question. [groans] What did I miss? Okay, do you know your mom has basically printed out every hate article? Yeah, she's also just a little bit worked up about Lotus Lain. Oh, I saw. Lotus totally tagged you on Insta. I'm super proud of you. Actually, I was inspired to, like, book you a sex-positive pole dancing class at, like, my fave studio. It's with Amy Bond. She's this, like, ah-mazing pole dancing champion. She's also a brilliant lawyer. Here. -Uh... -These will help you understand a little bit more about the backlash. You can start reading them on our way to Bushwick. Wait, what? Now, now? Put up the left leg. Reach this way. [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ Yeah, friends, that looks awesome. We're gonna start with our closest arm to the pole. The right arm is on. Squeeze this armpit in like a little chicken wing. -Chicken wing. -I'm gonna kick my right leg and go up and over and lift up over. [gasps] -Ohh! -Yeah. You're getting there. -You've got it. -Okay. And then here. Stand up. Oh, God. [exhales deeply] -Yes. [chuckles] -Thank you so much. Okay. I'm doing really great. I'm doing my best. Go ahead and have a seat on the floor. I'm gonna show you some tricks going up the pole so that you can see what you can do if you keep coming back to class. ♪♪♪ [cheers and applause] Oh, my God. [applause] [cheering] Oh, my God. [cheers and applause] -Whoo! -Oh, my God! Whoo! -Aah! -Ohh! -Whoo! -[applause] [cheering] Whoo! [cheering] [applause] So, you guys, really good class today. -Is this your top? -Thank you. [laughs] Yeah. Okay. Do you mind if I--you said we could ask you questions. Oh, my gosh, yeah. Let's have a seat right here. I swear I'm not this person, but I was, like, judging. I'm judging myself. Like, what would my mom say if she could see me, you know what I mean? -Yeah. -So I have a-a project. It touches on, like, sex and sex work, and people are telling me I don't have the right to talk about it, and everyone's like, "You're bad for doing this. You're bad if you do that. You're just bad. You're terrible." And I come here, and I watch you, and I'm like, fuck, she is free. Mm-hmm. I don't know what you just did, but, like, I need to understand what you just did. It's not even really, like, about the pole. It's more about what has that unleashed inside of you? And for me, growing up, I was raised very Mormon. My value as a human being and as a person and as a woman depended on me staying pure and being pure in my body. And for a long time, I really believed that. I spent so much of my teenage years trying to think of myself as a non-sexual person, because if I was sexy, that meant my worth as a human being was less in the eyes of God. When I was 19, I moved to Los Angeles to be an actress. I didn't make it. I started doing nude modeling, and then I shot my first porn scene. Um, when I was 19, I was still a virgin. So many people hear that story and think, "Oh, that's so sad," but I had an amazing experience in pornography. For the first time, I was around people who weren't judging me, and nobody's kindness depended on me being pure, and it was like this huge weight had been lifted, and I could start being more embodied in who I am. I don't feel like I have to be pure. -Mm-hmm. -But I also... I mean, like I, you know, the truth is, I sleep with who I feel like sleeping with. I feel free to do that, but at the same time... Do you feel full from the-- from the people who you have relationships with? Do you feel that you are a better version of yourself with those people? You understand sexuality in your head, but maybe not in your body. It's like lawyer-smart versus pole dancer-smart. [laughs] And, like, how can we-- how can we get you out of your head and more into your body? Because those two things are deeply interconnected. I'm hearing my mom saying, "So you're telling my daughter she doesn't know how to make decisions because she's wearing too much clothing." I wonder what happens if you take it all off. What happens if you take off all the protective equipment? That nakedness is, like, the way to approach the world more honestly and more in touch with yourself, and more transparently, and that can only lead to a deeper connection with yourself. What if we just start small? Take your shirt off. Like, just take your shirt off right now, and I want you to just scream at the top of your lungs. Find your voice. Find your voice connected to the deepest part of you-- your sexuality. Come on. Let's do it right now. -Amy... -You got it. That's an amazing bra. [laughs] -I don't have an amazing bra. -Just take it off. Your body carries you through this world and allows you to do amazing things. Just take it off. Like this. Start here. And just take it off. God, I don't know why this is so hard. 3, 2, 1. [inhales sharply] [exhales deeply] Now we're gonna scream. 3...2...1. [both screaming] ♪♪♪ Why don't you free the nipples, baby? Uh... Free your own nipples! Jesus. ♪♪♪ -Sick dude. -[cellphone buzzing] Uh, h-hi, Robert. You're not gonna believe-- Hold on for Robert. Hold, please. Of course you have your assistant call me. Hold. [horn honks] Rashid. [groans] Thank you so much. Oh, my God. Why you ain't got no clothes on? -I do have clothes on. -It's still Brooklyn. -God. -Hey, babe, you still there? Yup. Hi, Robert. So not only do they wanna do your movie, they wanna fast-track it and include it in their upfronts. -What? -Shit. Sorry. Upfronts-- what's that again? It's like a showcase for Madison Avenue. If they like what the studio puts out, they'll get behind it. This sounds amazing, but that also means I just have to do, like, whatever they want me to do, right? Babe, don't overthink this. You should be excited. This could be huge for you. You know I love you, right? I'm just focusing on what's best for you. I know. I know, honey. Anyway, they just need you to fly out to L.A. for a quick meeting. It's really important that you be there in person. Okay. Would you meet me out there? I will not be able to be there in person. I'll be on Zoom. But you know what matters is that you're gonna be the magic in the room. What day is it? I wanna make sure I don't have any conflicts. It's not like your phone is ringing off the hook. No, but I mean, I have-- there's some family stuff going on with my mom. Let me get back to you with the date. Okay. Wow, this is really com-- [line beeping] All right, look, first of all, you ain't gotta worry about your moms. But, um, this dude Robert... [scoffs] just seems mad corny. If you want to do big things, you need to elevate your whole situation. You feel me? Matter fact, look at my glove compartment right quick. Get that article. Evan "Bad" Seinfeld? -Rashid, you read "Forbes"? -Yeah. You know I'm trying to build this generational wealth. This dude--he trying to empower women, but, like, in a sexier way. I'm sorry. I don't mean sexy. No offense. Like where women-- they control it. I'm saying if you gonna go to L.A., you need to link with him. -I don't know. [messaging bloops] [turn signal clicking] Oh, my God. [sighs] Whew. Rosario Dawson. Ay, Mama. Okay, I know this might not be everybody's first choice, but we're going to L.A. -L.A.? It's actually unceded Tongva land. It's not really L.A. Lorraine is not gonna be happy about this. [jet roaring] ♪♪♪ I can't believe you dragged us here. I know you're upset, Lorraine. Can you just please eat a little something? I have no appetite. I'm too disgusted. But you--but you--you can practically feel them making the dirty movies here. Los Angeles is the smut capital of the world. We have plenty of smut in New York also, Lorraine. Yes, but at least we're embarrassed about it. -Here, they have no shame. -Exactly. [scoffs] I think this whole experience is gonna, like, totally raise your vibration, Sarah Jones. And raise your profile. You feel me? Make this movie, get this money, get you a new manager. Matter fact, I was thinking, I got this 10-point plan-- -Yeah, I agree with you. -Oh! Imma be your manager. No, I mean, I have a good feeling about all this. Is that good feeling from the people calling you a traitor on one side, or the ones calling you a SWERF and a TERF on the other? SWERF and TERF? Sounds like a seafood restaurant. But I'm still not hungry. [clears throat] Maybe the good feeling is coming from you about to break your mother's heart just to do a movie that doesn't even take a real stand. Sarah, you know "sex work" is just another way of saying exploitation. OM-Goddess. Sarah would totally be taking a stand that sex work is real work. And this movie will tell the world. You're both wrong. The real problem is Sarah doesn't know what she really believes. Also, I'm too hungry. I can't take it anymore. -Uh... -She ate my burger, son. Lorraine, you can't do that. Fine, Sarah, I will at least drive you to your bendito movie studio meeting. Okay. Thanks. I appreciate that. It's not to be nice. It's just to make sure you don't completely sell your soul to these people. -Sell your soul. I wish someone wanted to buy my soul. Mmm, very good. Mmm. -[elevator bell dings] -This is us. Excuse me. Sarah, doing this movie could make everything worse. Yeah, but don't you think it's important for me to at least try to get more of the stories out there? All the people I interviewed for the play? I'm just saying, you need to be careful with this whole Hollywood thing. The next thing you know, you're chasing fame, worshiping people. You know, just-- you'll end up idolizing... Is that Rosario Dawson? [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] [telephone ringing in distance] Woman! -Oh, my God. -What are you doing here? -Oh, my gosh. -I can't believe this. -I have a meeting here. -You do? Yeah. It's--Uh, sorry. -Hi. -Hi. I'm Rosario Dawson. No. You're Rosario Dawson. This is an incredible experience meeting you right now. I'm sorry. I'm not this person. I'm not like this. Just that you were, um, I am--I'm very excited to meet you right now, and I know that usually most people will probably wanna take a selfie, but that's very not me. I really prefer autographs. It's more like your hand is directly connected to your heart. I'm sorry. I just try not to be nervous 'cause whenever I get nervous, I just have to talk really fast and nobody can understand anything I'm saying. I'm sorry. This is actually-- I think this is compulsive talking. I'm having my nightmare right now. Please excuse me. -Okay. -I feel bad for her. She loves you so much. [laughs] I thought she was gonna hyperventilate. -She'll be okay. -But what are you-- you said you're doing a meeting here? What's going on? Well, so the last time I saw you, I was doing my play. -Yeah. They might wanna make a movie out of it. I know. But I'm actually early for my meeting. Okay. Do you have, like, five minutes? -I'd love to pick your brain. -For you? Rosario! Okay, okay. So first of all... [exhaling deeply] [sighs] ♪♪♪ [exhales deeply] ♪♪♪ [exhales deeply] ♪♪♪ [sighs] The studio said, "Oh, the controversy's a great thing," but they're a huge company. If the movie gets canceled or whatever, they'll be fine. What about me? Somehow, with this topic, it feels like one false move, and I'm dead, and it's new language. It's like cultural appropriation. Who has the right to tell whose stories? I think what you're wanting to do with this project is to go on the adventure that is really getting to see all of the breadth of humanity and to share with people who otherwise wouldn't be interested in this space, it's powerful. It's really beautiful and really necessary. This is actually important. It should be scary, 'cause it's a huge responsibility that you're deciding to take on that most people don't. ♪♪♪ Oh! Oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh. [exhales deeply] The gatekeepers of culture, which are usually white cisgendered males, who often don't allow us in, except for the first time, kind of now in a way because there's pressure to have a box that they have to check. That box didn't exist before, but now they need to check it. They don't wanna do the work, but they're hoping someone like you will put in the work, and as much as that still feels very problematic and it absolutely is, it's still an opportunity that generations of us did not have before. So don't go in there thinking anyone's doing you a favor. You demand what you want. This is your vision that you have built over so long. So you take up the space that is yours. Okay. I can do it. It's just, usually my manager or somebody would be with me. They're gonna walk in and say, "Oh, my God. Sarah Jones, huge fan." And they probably just looked you up online, like, to be prepared. So you make sure that these are the people you wanna work with. Okay. All right. -You got this. -Oh, sorry to interrupt. -Sarah. -Ah. Hi. -Hi. I'm Benny. -What's up? -Hi, Benny. -Thanks for coming in. -I'm a huge fan. -Oh. Could we get you a glass of water or something? -Uh... -Coffee? Kombucha? We got it all. Hey, come on in. Okay. Uh... [whispers] You got this. Uh, kombucha sounds great, actually. I did try to wait, but you didn't come out of the bathroom. -Okay, but what did I miss? They still want you to do this whole movie thing? Announce it at their upfronts? Yeah. I mean...well, there is one...new thing. One small. There's gonna be this, like, decrim consultant involved. -But it's not-- -[gasps] I knew it. So basically, you're willing to let them use you. I'm willing to let them make a huge movie out of "Sell/Buy/Date" so we can reach more people. Sarah, they're gonna use you as the poster child at their upfronts. Don't play naive. You know exactly what "decrim" really means. -[elevator bell dings] -Oh! Hold the elevator! Yeah, but, Nereida, decrim as I understand it just means not criminalizing women in the sex industry. Whether they chose it or not, they still should never be punished. Sarah, what you're describing is partial decriminalization. But the movie studio is pushing for full decrim. That's different than just stopping women from getting locked up. Full decriminalization actually ends up protecting pimps and guys like these. When their prostitute goes to jail, they get to go to the equivalent of traffic school and get a slap on the wrist. If you stay out of trouble, your case will be dismissed, and more importantly, your record will be clean. Look, I told you, I'm not picking one side or the other. We just have to be strategic. Even if it's a little biased, at least the conversation will be out there. Don't forget what Lotus Lain said. A lot of these sex workers cannot wait to cancel your act as a cultural appropriator who doesn't have the right to even make this movie. So if you wanna throw away everything we built just so you can be on the wrong side of this issue and still get canceled by everybody. -Nereida... -And you know what? I wasn't gonna go there, but are you really willing to take the risk that your movie could hurt young girls, vulnerable girls, especially certain girls? Don't make me get more specific. Watch what you're saying right now, because you can't take it back. How about this? I have an ultimatum for you. If you go through with this, Sarah, I'm leaving. I don't care how many years I've been with you. I'm done. And matter fact, why don't we see how that would feel right now? Come on. Nereida! You can't be serious right now. Oh, my God. It's like her mom was super pissed. I think, like, Nereida's even more pissed. Can I just, like, call you back? Oh, my God. [sighs] [panting] Hi. Thanks for bringing my bag. Yeah. Totes. The keys are in here. I wanted to meet you guys earlier, then I ended up at this natural foods store. I got this turmeric goddess chakra booster. It's supposed to, like, energize you. I don't really feel it. By the way, are you aware of, like, these stairs that are around here? The juice barista was telling me, like, apparently there's like an energetic vortex in these canyons. Anyway, I know you're, like, super upset that, like, Nereida's upset, but I feel that, like, with this movie giving, like, space to, like, the decrim side to, like, really be in the space, you know? This is gonna be game-changing for you, and also, the sex workers are totally gonna rally around you once you embrace them, um, but for now, do not read the "Rolling Stone" article that just dropped about whether you should be canceled. Okay. So here's your stuff. Maybe you should go in there and, like, get some rest. You're kind of giving me a lot of unhoused person right now. Um... Oh, by the way... I believe Naomi would have wanted you to do this. I mean, what side do you think she would have been on? Yeah. Especially because, like, I mean, if you think about it, the average person doesn't really know what "decrim" even means. [sighs] ♪♪♪ Oh. Aw. I love you, too, Robert. Okay. Oh. Yes. Oh, my God. [door closes] [hammering, tool whirring] What the... Hello? Hello? MAN: You must be Samantha. We're gonna be turning the whole bedroom into a closet. Can I get you to sign that form? What? Uh, one--one second, please. [line rings] ROBERT: You've reached my voicemail. I'll call you back if you're worth it. There's a construction crew here, and now I'm seeing somebody legally needs to be in this house for a week while they do their work. You--You are using me so your real girlfriend can get a new closet? This is very on brand. -[ring] -Shit. Uh, I'll--I'll call you right back. Hi. Dr. Doroshenko? For, like, a Zoom appointment? Oh, right now, now. [whirring and hammering continues] [sighs] Uh, no, this is a fantastic time. -Highly communicable. -Yes. -Meaning contagious. Yeah. -Of course. And this was likely second partner. So that's how you know it was him--the date. Yes, because of date of antibodies, so be careful. -I will. -Protect yourself. -More careful. Of course. -Okay. -[click] -[sighs] SARAH: It's funny. Naomi was my little sister, And she had her own demons, but she was always the one warning me about giving my power away to a man. Now I think sometimes she just speaks right through my characters. Sounds like you may need to close up shop for a little while. -That's just not so-- -Well, sweetheart, maybe it's time to open up a new shop. I just think you deserve better, that's all. Oh, my. Talk about supportive. Sarah, you have to broaden your horizons. -You know what I mean. -Yep. [under breath] Let's just... I told you so. [laughs] I don't know. Evan Seinfeld-- he a feminist, yo. L.A. feminist. [laughs] Yeah. [paper rustling] ♪♪♪ I still can't believe you got a Tesla. I'm just saying, you gotta rep the car you want for the life you want. Hear me? Anyway, I ain't stupid. I got it off an app, hourly. Are you sure he said it's okay to just walk in like this? Man. Oh! [laughs] -Wild. -He got the Tony Montana! Except he got banana, though. -Hello! -A museum up in this. It's sexy, but it's tasteful, though. -Like, art. Like real art. -Hello! Yeah, fuck that guy. Oh. I'll call you back. [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ -Hello. -Hi. I'm Sarah. Sarah, Evan Seinfeld. Welcome. [laughs] I know. I recognize you from the picture. Thank you for doing this. I... -Hi. -This is Cassandra. -Hi. -Nice to meet you. Let her know if you need anything, all right? Thank you so much. This is Ra-- -Rashid. -God. Yo! I can't believe you remember my name, son. Yeah, yeah. This... I'm in a dream right now. Like, slap me. Nah-- Don't slap me, though. Like, yo! [laughs] Um, we don't wanna take much of your time. How about I take you on a tour, and we'll see where the journey goes? All right? Oh, my God. Yes. I would love that. So he said, you know what I'm saying? If I need anything, I wanna know if there's something I need, is something you could provide, do you feel me? I know you have so many slashes-- music and also the adult industry. And I'm really curious about this idea of empowering women. Like, how women can use their own power to be in this industry. Me, coming from music as an artist, you--you're never really in control of your career. And all these companies made all this money from the talent, and the talent they made the least, and I saw it as a clear disconnect, because I was talent myself, so-- So you performed in--I'm not gonna go watch your stuff, but you performed... I've been performing on camera for about 20 years. I've done a few thousand scenes, yeah. You've done a few thousand scenes. -Yeah. -So you got to be a sex worker yourself. -Yeah. Do you consider yourself a sex worker? I consider myself a sex worker, sure. I think that a lot of people have it really wrong about sex workers, so I saw an opportunity to connect people who make their own content with the people who want that content, and when-- when it came together, it was like a business explosion because suddenly, these once-exploited sex workers or porn stars who were being, you know, offered maybe a small amount of the share, now earn 80% of the money, you know? So you're saying the-- you're basically helping, and I'm thinking especially about women, instead of having to give all their money that they earned to some company, they're keeping the vast majority of it for themselves. Right. We just provide a vehicle--technology, and we also act as a marketing partner. 'Cause we only make money if they make money. So you've been able to build all of this, but what do you say to people who would call you, I don't know, like a modern-day digital pimp or something? It's funny. Tucker Carlson called me out as a--some type of modern-day pimp, which I thought was really funny. I never thought my name would be mentioned on Fox News, but-- I never thought I would say anything close to what Tucker Carlson says, but okay. Well, I mean, nothing could be further from the truth. We pay out millions of dollars to mostly women who are using their own decisions, their own choices as adults legally to make usually pretty tame videos or sexy videos or whatever they're interested in making. And it's incredible, 'cause I've seen girls who are in at-risk situations, and now they have their own apartment and a car and health insurance, and they, like, they're entrepreneurs, and their business is them. See, this idea that this is the kind of thing that would lift women who need support and can't find it working at Walmart or whatever, out of their situation, that's what I'm interested in. [dog barking] You know, women have been objectified and kept in a box because of their sexuality by men. Hey, hey, sweetheart. Yes, that's right. You're a woman. Sweetheart, do you feel kept in a box? So you Evan's girlfriend, and you Evan's girlfriend. You also Evan's girlfriend. I'm just saying, I'm--I'm a little overwhelmed right now. -That's all. -[laughter] Imma keep my hands where I can see 'em myself, you know what I'm saying? So y'all can see 'em, but I also need to see my own hands right now. You know what I'm saying? A little bit. After 20 years in the adult business, I see a huge paradigm shift in power. The women who have all the fans have all the power. They don't need to be affiliated with some company. See, I could see myself getting, I don't know. I'm not saying I'm ready to be an adult-- Listen, anybody who follows you on social media, if you made a post on your social media and said, "Hey, I've now got some exclusive sexy content, and if you would like to subscribe," you wouldn't believe how many people would pay for the curiosity of what you might be into sexually, and you know what? You might be an exhibitionist who is really turned on in sharing this, and there's something very empowering about doing something that turns you on and then being financially rewarded for it. You know, people wanna shame you for what feels good and what feels natural. Like, what's wrong with us as a society? We promote violence, and we give our kids video games, and we're seeing carjacking, and this is part of the vernacular, but if anybody sees a boob, we're all in trouble. I get it. I mean, I still have so many questions. -Let's continue. -All right. Have you had to deal with people saying what's empowering, what's not? This is gorgeous, by the way. -Thank you. Um... -Yeah. We deal with judgment all the time. I mean, I've heard some of our models on the site say, "Hey, man, anybody who's not paying my bills doesn't have a right to judge how I make my living." I love that attitude, and I want to have that attitude. People are gonna judge whatever you do. And that's why I wanted your advice. I just think you have a really unique perspective on this whole thing. Well, listen, if you wanna become informed, you might wanna head out to Vegas. The Sex Industrial Revolution Conference is going on right now. I'm one of the keynote speakers. -I'll set you up with a pass. -Oh, my God. And you can inform yourself, you know? Okay. I mean...yeah! I wanna do it. -Vegas, baby. -What's happening to me? ♪♪♪ Yeah, I hear you, Nereida, but I keep thinking about what you said, Bella. I mean, what side would Naomi have been on? -Exactly. Thank you. -Wait. This means they scheduled the conference Evan told me about right next to a... Yup, anti-trafficking conference. -Yo no puedo. -This is gonna be like a war. It's gonna be fine. [indistinct conversations] Wait, Sarah, I'm-- I'm just saying. You know where you're gonna get reliable information and where you're not. Exactly. That is why I have prepared an entire itinerary for us. Just one second. I'm gonna put the SIR app right into your phone. I'm just gonna input all your info. One second. -Okay. -So they have better tech. Maybe that's because so many Silicon Valley guys spend most of their money on prostitution. Actually, I was gonna mention how sex workers unions are really changing the whole-- -Uh, would those be the sex workers "unions" run by pimps? Okay, Nereida, can you just let her finish? -[sighs] -Thank you. I was hoping this would go a little bit faster 'cause I'm trying to get us in to see Alice Little. She's amazing. Union advocate. Sex worker millionaire. She's one of the most successful sex care providers in the world. Love her. Am I too late to sign up for Esperanza Fonseca? It was sold out. It still is on the app, but I think I can get us in. Let's just--Here are these, and here. Take that. And I think we'll be fine. Come on. Let's go. -Yeah. Come on. -Wait, Sarah. -Uh... -Okay. It's really, it's totally gonna open you up. -At least take these. -I'm just trying to keep my mind open. -Right, as usual. Refusing to land on either side of the issue. There's no integrity. You wanna be a hovercraft. This is not "The Mandalorian." I'm sorry we didn't get in. It's just, like, triggering me back to the time I was 12, and my dad got counterfeit tickets to the Pussycat Dolls. Yeah. If it wasn't meant to be, it's okay. Anyway, Nereida really wants me to see this woman, Esperanza Fonseca. She looks incredible. She's a Latina trans woman with experience in the sex industry herself, so you might-- you should come with us. She seems great. Like, that's amazing, but I just, you know, Alice is like my she-ro. -I understand. -Like-- But you know, Bella, there's like a lot of people in here. -[crowd shouting indistinctly] -Oh, my God. I love you. Can I get a photo for the Gram? Alice! -Oh! -I love you, Alice! -[all shouting indistinctly] -Uh...Oh, my God. God. Okay. [panting] Okay. Okay. So I just met Alice Little. And she, like, invited me back to her brothel for a private tour. -You can totally come, too. -Okay. -Okay. -Uh-huh. [breathlessly] So basically all we have to do is... [gasps] What are you doing? Bella? Bella. Oh, my God. Uh, could I get some assistance, please, from, uh, either side, uh, prostitution, anti? Anybody? Oh, my God. Sex work. I meant sex work! Oh, my God. Okay. ♪♪♪ -Hello, hello! -Hi, Alice. Hi! I'm so glad you made it. [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ -Come on in! -I'm glad I made it, too. I'm sad my friend who sent me actually is really gonna be pissed that she missed this. May I give you the grand tour? -Yes. -When guests come in, this is where they will meet the worker of their choosing. We would line up right here against the mirror and introduce ourselves to the guests, like-- Wait. So there would be, like, a lineup of workers. -Mm-hmm. -Got it. Then each introduce ourselves by name. The guest is able to walk up to the person of their choosing, introduce themselves, and then from there, we'll take them on a tour, much like the tour I'm taking you on. Follow me. This is our pool area here. Very important in the Nevada heat. I wish I had time to get in there. [laughs] Yes, we have pool parties. Can you, like, rent out the whole ranch just for yourself? You certainly could if you so desired to. -Oh, my Cashmere. -Oh, my God. -Hi, beautiful. -Cashmere. She is so spoiled. Little lounge here where we might relax while we wait for our guests. This is where a lot of us have coffee in the morning. We'll watch some news, read books. -Isn't it great? -Yeah. It's so comfortable and relaxed. -[meows] -Now through this door here, we have our doctor's office. Come on in. I swear, when you said doctor's office, I was like, ooh, that sounds like a cool theme. [laughs] And you're like, no, it's an actual doctor's office. An actual doctor's office, though I suppose a little bit of kinky fun could certainly happen. [laughs] I have to say that this is not the first thing I think of, and I think most people would say, like, "Oh, it's so dangerous. It's so..." But you actually have your healthcare right here on the premises. Such an important part of what this industry is. It's creating all of these opportunities for accessibility. How do you get 20 people to the doctor? Well, bring the doctor right to them. It's-- These signs are on, like, every door. A very important feature of legality is that it does mandate condom and barrier use. Sex work is only legal here in Nevada. So long as sex work remains a crime, legal brothels are the only safe spaces. I heard there's, like, a panic button in every room? Yeah. Oh, yeah. Just in case, of course. Right. Has it ever had to be, like, deployed? Only for medical emergencies. Yeah. All right. Let's keep going. You are providing the public with a service. -Do you see it that way? -Yeah. It's no different than any other service. We have doctors that take care of our physical health. We have therapists that take care of our mental health. Who looks after our sexual health and our sexual needs? Sex workers. That's what we do. Is there a world where everybody can achieve this level? Well, it's important to discuss privilege. There's all of the costs that come with getting started in this industry. You have to fly yourself out to Nevada. We pay for our own testing. We actually undergo a fingerprint requirement to work here legally. Full background check, all of which we are required to pay ourselves every single quarter. Oh, my goodness. -Come on in! -Hey! This is our dungeon space here. We've got a throne chair, all sorts of tools and implements for pleasure or pain. I'm a BDSM educator, and so I work with folks all the way from the brand-new, never experienced kink before to folks that really wanna be able to go all the way with a professional who's able to tie and suspend them or completely hold them down and tease them with, uh, electricity. -Aah! I heard "tease them," and then we got to "electricity." Well, it's only like a static shock. It's quite lovely. Dryer sheets level? Like just static-- -Not even that bad. -Okay. [laughs] You've given me a sense of the fun and the play and that the problem is more people don't have access to the fun and play. I hate to ask this. I'm guessing men own most of the brothels. There are women who have been sex workers that own brothels in one case, but that is the minority experience, certainly not the majority. -You said one case? -In one case. So how do we change this? Even within the most optimized system we have for this, there's still so much work to be done and so many more improvements that we can make. And it starts with expanding legalization along with decriminalization, and that's what I wanna make happen, is expand this so more people can find success. ♪♪♪ Thanks, Alice. I'm taking all of this with me. -All right, bye. -Bye. -Have a good one. -You, too. ♪♪♪ Nereida, she's really smart. You wanna just meet her for a second? Sarah, get in the car. I'm taking you to the most important meeting you're gonna have while you're here. [sighs] ♪♪♪ I'm not giving up on you yet, Sarah Jones. This is your last chance. I will leave you if you don't get this right. Here. Room 1707. Okay. [door closes] I just wanna tell her go to Dominican Republic where prostitution is legal since before I was born and see, what does that really mean? It's not like once you make it legal, it just magically creates this level playing field, and women are all suddenly just running around with high self-esteem, advocating for themselves. It makes me so sick that we are all supposed to care about the same human rights, but I mean, if one more of these so-called sex work advocates calls me anti-sex, I swear to God, I'm gonna be like, first of all, I love sex. Sex is amazing. But what you are having is not sex. That's what I wanna say. We cannot even have a debate about this because you are not having sex. You are having... some sales experience, and that's fine if that's what you wanna do. But don't keep calling it sex and running around doing all these philosophical gymnastics about how freeing it is to sell your body and that you have agency and you're empowered. [scoffs] I mean, look, if you wanna argue that you have agency, fine. But that is not the same as power. Your agency is just about you. Power is about all women and understanding you do not represent the majority of the people caught in the lie that this is a great career path. You know, I would wanna say to them one last thing. I would say you are my sisters, even though you fight me, and just 'cause I don't call what you do sex, it doesn't mean I call you my enemy. 'Cause that's exactly what our real enemy out there would want. So I won't call you a victim or a survivor if you say you're not, but I am not gonna call you an empowered feminist either. What I will call you is a veteran-- a veteran of the war on girls and women, 'cause to me, that's what you are. Hi. Oh, my God. Wait. You're... Esperanza. [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ -From the conference. -Yeah. Come in. So Nereida told me you had a tour of the Chicken Ranch? -Yes. -Well, I wanna give you a different kind of tour for what it's like for girls like me. -Okay. I know that when you first come in, it looks like so much opulence, right? -Yeah. -Well, none of that is for me. -It's all for the male client. -Hmm. But one of the first things that I would do is take you over here, and I would have a drink for myself because the sex trade is one of the most violent places that a woman can be, and that's why we have higher PTSD rates than even groups of veterans. I'm hearing you, and of course, I know this stuff, right? But it's so confusing when you go the Chicken Ranch and everyone's telling you how much fun they're having. And meanwhile, you're talking about you have to have a drink just to be able to do this. Sometimes a drink isn't even enough. I've had four friends who have died in hotel rooms like this. -Oh, my God. Some as "opulent" as this one, and others that are dusty motel rooms. Some girls keep a hot comb or a flat iron on. I've done that several times. If he tries to do anything, you burn him. And unfortunately, that oftentimes becomes what you have to do. -Okay, I'm sorry. There were no hot combs at the Chicken Ranch, or nobody talked about this, but it makes sense. I mean, right now if I'm in a hotel room with a stranger, I feel unsafe. There's no one else here. What if you at least had a panic button like in the brothel where I just was? At least then you can feel safe. Brothel or no brothel, there is no real protection. We develop ways to feel safe, but we are never completely secure. It's also important to understand that in a brothel like the Chicken Ranch, the bosses are making a ton of profit off of those women. But the women make a lot of money, too, Esperanza, don't they? Well, most women don't work in places like the Chicken Ranch. -Right. Right. -Most women in the sex trade are actually living in extreme poverty. And most of us don't get out through the sex trade either. Wow. Can I ask you, so are you still doing this? So I am a survivor. When I started my gender transition, I was fired from my job. -Mm. And I lost my social support network. And like so many other women like me, I was forced into the sex trade in order to survive. -Okay. -Um, well, let's keep going. Yeah, let's keep going. 'Cause I-I want you to see where stuff really goes down, which is in the bedroom. So many people agree if we pass decrim legislation, it would get rid of the violence. Well, you know, Sarah, I used to be a very staunch full decrim advocate. What? I know it's presented like this golden ticket, but for all women in the sex trade, especially women of color, the violence does not stop. There is a group of people in the sex trade that benefit from our exploitation. Expanding their rights isn't going to address the violence or the exploitation. You know, when you look at countries that have decriminalized pimping and sex buying, you don't see a reduction in violence, in stigma, or in coercion. That's forcing women into the sex trade in the first place. As long as prostitution has existed, it has never been made up of women doing this out of their free choice. When the sex trade originated, most of those women were actually enslaved. A lot of people don't know the real history. I think you should talk to the original inhabitants of this land. There's gonna be a gathering about murdered and missing indigenous women as part of this conference. Right. Vegas, Sin City. It's...This is native land. They are the final frontier of facts on this issue. ♪♪♪ [laughter] [click] [bell dings] ♪♪♪ [laughter continues] [click] [bell dings] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ -[laughter] -Hi. -I'm sorry to interrupt. -Oh! I'm Sarah. I-I think Esperanza reached you, but I've been lost for a little while. It's what look me so long. Is there anything to drink in here? -Yes. -Yeah! -Help yourself. -Glad you made it. Thank you. Esperanza told me so much about all of you. She was like, yeah, think about Nevada. Think about where we are. So this is actually Shoshone and Paiute land. And so a place like Las Vegas, Nevada, wouldn't be possible without the exploitation of native land, resources, and women. And, um, we know that native women are disproportionately trafficked, and it's because of extractive projects. It's because of gas and oil development. You might be familiar with man camps. Man camp-- -No. -Yeah. -Wait. Okay, hold on. -[laughter] -A lot of information. -What's a man camp? Whenever they're constructing a pipeline or there's a big oil extraction project, um, the workers live on site in camps, and have become called man camps. 'Cause everybody who works there is a man. Yeah, typically and, um, those are hot spots for sex trafficking, and so we know that when gas and oil extraction projects come to our homeland, the rates of the disappearances and deaths and the trafficking of native women shoot up. And when we're talking about the indigenous perspective, I think we do need to look beyond the North American perspective, because First Peoples all over the world are still subjected to the violence of the sex trade in countries that are so-called "developing." They're encouraged by the International Monetary Fund to legalize the sex trade, um, so that their economies can be stimulated so that a sex tourism economy can be created, and we've seen projects like this happen in India, for example, and that's where, uh, one of the places where the term "sex work" was popularized, um, to push those endeavors. Wait. So you're saying official governmental-- I don't know. Like the IMF, the World Bank-- these are huge. You say they actually promote sex work as helpful to the economy of a country? Yes. You know, it's no secret that certain women are fetishized, right? Asian women, native women, Black and Brown women, and so places like that, when they are encouraged to legalize the sex trade are marketed as a place where, you know, men from countries in the First World can have access to the bodies of these poor women of color in countries in the Global South. It's usually white men. -Mm-hmm. -Mm-hmm. And the U.S. military has played a huge role in that. I mean, the whole idea of decriminalizing and women having a choice. Yeah, "choice" is definitely a word that we think we have. We think we have autonomy. We think we have body sovereignty, but within the sex trade industry, like, coercion really is, you know, huge with native women and native queer and trans folks, like, we have the highest rates of domestic violence and sexual violence. And so when you have all of those ingredients, especially at home as a young person, where are you supposed to turn to? How do you make a living for yourself? A lot of times these traffickers do make promises for you. They make you feel loved. They make you feel like you're the number one person. And so when you get that, and you're not getting that at home, it becomes a lot easier for you to get pulled into the sex trade industry. Like now, if a girl or woman needs to earn a living, I just--I don't want anyone to be hurt further. -You--You know what I mean? -Yeah. There are some people who say, "Look, I'm in this industry, and I wanna be there." How do you... Um, so I'm actively in the industry still. Um, and I think it's very easy for people who are rich and especially white to say that it's a choice to be in it. I've been trying to leave for the past year. And it's not easy. It's not--I feel like... I feel like I'm trapped, and especially as a native woman, I had to ask myself if I was financially stable growing up, would I have even considered for a second doing this line of work, and I don't think I would have. It's been very, um, violent, and it's like I'm trapped in this. I-I don't see a way out even now. And I don't think that enough people realize how many native women are out there actively dying. So yeah. Terria, thank you for telling me all that. I mean, how old were you when you... Um... I was 17. Um...sorry. I don't wanna mess up my makeup. It's okay. Okay. It was, like, a really small comment that changed my life. I was talking to an older trans woman, and just offhand, she said, "Oh, my God. You're so pretty. You would make a killing on Backpage." And I asked her, "What's Backpage?" And she explained to me that it's a site where, you know, girls like us can make money, and so that night, I went home, and I posted my first ad, and it... it was a very scary moment. I remember after I had my first client, I went into the bathroom, and I looked in the mirror, and I started crying so hard that I threw up because all of a sudden, I-- my body no longer belonged to me. It belonged to the systems and place that I'm trying to survive under, and I've been trying to survive under for the past, what, six years. I think, um, when we talk about decriminalization, we're talking about the decriminalization of prostituted people, trafficked people, and those who call themselves sex workers, not necessarily the pimps and johns, right? The way I see it, pimps and johns are on the level with every other exploiter. There's an inherent power imbalance, and in most native languages, there's not a word for "prostitution." There's not a word for "pimp" or "john" because our societies do not enable a market for sex to exist, and we need to fight for a world where the sex trade does not exist. I see that as simply continuing the traditions of resistance that our ancestors left behind. What you're saying, it's like if you want to honor your lost loved ones, like, do what they would want you to do. How do you know what they would want you to do, though? Well, the thing is, as far as us Pueblos and Diné, like, we don't really call back our ancestors or ask for them for anything because we let them rest. You know, we let them be. And so us, we have to move forward. We always have to move forward. And so we have to fight with resistance. We're resisting as much as we can, and that's how we honor our-- our past and our ancestors. Resisting is how you honor the people you've lost. Okay. I'm so grateful for what you're doing, and, um, yeah. I--this is... this is exactly what I needed. I feel like I was guided to you, so I hope we get to see each other again. -I'm in New York, if you... -We're heading that way. -All right, all right. -[laughter] All right, I'll see you there. This was such a gift. -Thanks for talking with us. -It's such a pleasure. -Bye, Terria. -Bye. Thank you so much. I'm--I'm gonna see you again. I'm gonna see you, too, Becki. Ahéhee'. Thank you. -Tell me again. -Ahéhee'. -Ahéhee'. -Thank you. -♪ Hey, there ♪ -Bye. ♪ You looking for a brighter season ♪ ♪ Need to lay your burden down ♪ ♪ Hey there ♪ ♪ You drowning in the helpless feeling ♪ ♪ Buried under deeper ground ♪ [sighs] Okay, Naomi, I'm ready. ♪♪♪ ♪ When the lights go out and you're on your own ♪ ♪ Hey there, hold on ♪ ♪ How you're gonna make it through ♪ ♪ Till the morning time? ♪ ♪ Morning ♪ ♪♪♪ "You choose the freedom to be free." What does that even mean? [papers rustling] [sniffles] [voice breaking] I really wish you had told me. ♪♪♪ I know I'm supposed to let you rest, right? ♪ Sing to the moon and the stars... ♪ I'll just do what you would want me to do. ♪ Over you ♪ ♪ Lead you to the other side ♪ -Okay. All right. -♪ Sing to the moon ♪ ♪ And the stars will shine ♪ [crying] All right, I'm gonna let you rest. -I will let you rest. -♪ Over you ♪ -I promise. -♪ Heaven's gonna turn ♪ ♪ The time ♪ Rashid. You cannot be serious with this. You don't know what I went through to get this. There's 50 conventions in Las Vegas right now. This was the only vehicle I could get. So if you wanna go to the airport, get in the car. Matter fact, they entrepreneurs. So you should be supporting 'em. Okay. All right. ♪♪♪ Hi, guys. It's me, Bella, and we're in Vegas at the moment. Rashid, like, is there any air conditioning here? There's no seatbelts. How is it legal? Yeah, you can't see the women's heads, like they're sort of decapitated. I'll tell you one thing. I'm gonna eat that shrimp. I wouldn't eat that. I would--I would--Listen. First of all, you're eating shrimp in Las Vegas. There's no water anywhere near here. They wouldn't risk it. You could sue. It has to be good. Oh, no, no. Don't-- Oh, God. Don't touch that. Just...you're eating limo shrimp. -You understand? -Yes. Very good. There might be vodka in there, too. Mama, you're gonna, like, need a bathroom. Lorraine, your shrimp's in my shot. Can you, like, move the shrimp? ♪♪♪ Sarah? Why does she look so upset? Sarah, are you okay? [jazz music playing] [sniffles] Oh, Lorraine, don't eat that shrimp. They're delicious. I do think we should stop at the bathroom at some point. ♪♪♪ Closer to now than not now. [roaring] ♪♪♪ Wow, Sarah. That whole trip sounds like a lot. -Yep. -You getting some self-care? Talking to your friends for support? I'm supposed to meet up with a couple of people in the city today. [sighs] And then I'm-- I'm gonna get ready for these upfronts. Can--actually, can I use the kitchen um...just for hair and makeup for, like, a couple hours? That's fine. No problem. Thanks, Mom. Can I tell you something else? Mm-hmm. Okay. This is gonna sound so weird. When I was in the desert, I realized, like, the past few days... it's like Naomi's been guiding me. I can't explain it. It's like I-I can feel her, you know? That's beautiful. Hmm. Yeah. And I--I'm sorry about the other day. You know, the family-- of course I care about the family. And that's why I wanna make this movie. [sighs] Oh, Sarah. I love you. I love you, too, Mom. [sniffles] ♪♪♪ [door creaks] -Hey. -Hi. -Oh, my goodness. -How are you? -Oh, I'm so happy to see you. -Good to see you, too. Thanks so much. I know I didn't leave you much detail when I asked you to meet me, but... [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ The best way I can put this is I feel like I'm at a crossroads. I mean, I get to make this film, but at the same time, there's a petition going around that people shouldn't work with me or talk to me, so I'm glad you apparently have not signed it. Even though I signed the petition, I didn't know what I was signing. You signed it as "Walter White." Thank you for doing that. I appreciate it. So I thought I was asking some questions and exploring the topic, but this is not about the movie. I didn't realize I had my own truth to unpack. "Sell/Buy/Date" was an exploration into the topic, and it's just people's perception, how they interpret it. You are getting into flavors and textures that make people uncomfortable in a large-- Aw. [laughs] It's true, and so in--in a way, rejoice in that. It's a really good time for that. It's a renaissance where we're not saying, what, you have to be this or you have to be this. It's like you have to be whatever you-- is true to you. I mean, I...Can I tell you a little story about me? -Yeah. -Okay. Um... I have an association with this topic. Way back when I was 16 years old, I was a virgin, and I was part of kind of like the Boy Scout group in Los Angeles, and we went to Europe. At 16, you're in Europe, and the mores of sexuality are different. And there was a lot of conversation among friends of mine in the group that's saying, "Oh, I'm gonna go to a house of prostitution." And it scared me, obviously. But I was also kind of curious about it. So I was with a couple guys, and we were unchaperoned. And--And they said stay out of the bars and stay out of the-- the red light district. And "Okay!" And we went right to the bars and the red light district, and I copped out. I didn't wanna get into it. My two friends negotiated a price, and I was just so nervous. I was shaking. And they--And they said, "What about you?" And I said, "Ah, no, I don't have the money. I don't have the money." I just...It just... I was just so petrified. So my two friends went off with their, um, escorts. And I sat in the foyer. And then a woman came in and said, "How much? How much you have?" I said, "No, I don't have enough." "No, show--show--show me." And I said, "Look it's not--" And she took the money. That's it. And she said, "Come on." And I went, oh, my God. I guess this is happening. And we went into this one room, and it had a little single bed and a sink and a trash can. Oh, my God, Bryan. [laughs] It was--I won't go into all the details of it, but it was an experience that was over very quickly. [laughs] Oh, my God. It was...dispassionate, to say the least. It was a transaction. And I think back on it now, and I come away not feeling proud nor humiliated. I-I'm kind of agnostic to it. It's just the truth. It's just what happened in my life as-- as, you know, I was growing up. [laughs] -Uh... -So... [laughs] Can I get a shot of something in this coffee? Yeah. Yeah. I'm just processing because... I'm thinking of you at 16, and I'm remembering what my life was like. At 12 and 13, I didn't understand really any of what was going on. And something that I-- it's really hard for me to talk about, and maybe that's why I did it through characters... [exhales deeply] Part of the reason I wrote "Sell/Buy/Date" is my own sister. By the time she was 16, she was in a transactional relationship with an older man who was 27. [voice breaking] He paid for her life. And she had drug issues and all kinds of other issues that complicated her own relationship to money, sex, and her own power. And, um, I've never wanted to talk about that. It's incredibly difficult especially because two years later, she died. And I'm not saying it's because of prostitution or transactional sex or any of the things that she went through, but... Bryan, if you had known my sister, she was the strongest, sweetest, most brilliant, and I know if she had lived, she'd be one of these women telling me, "I chose this. You don't have the right to tell me what to do or what not to do." And she'd be right, but she's my sister. And a part of me wonders, is it still a choice if it's something you have to do to survive? Can you call that a choice? I don't know. This feels like you had to go through this process of telling this story, "Sell/Buy/Date," so that you can confront your own personal feelings about losing your sister, and it's--it's intertwined. You can't separate that. If that's the only thing that comes out of this, it's worth it. But I absolutely believe this was your destiny to do this show and now do this film, so that you can completely get in there, crack open your emotional core, and go, "Okay, I'm not gonna be a character. I'm not gonna be anything but Sarah, and I'm looking right into me, and it scares the hell out of me." Have that bar really high and then try to reach it. But it's gotta-- it's gotta satisfy you, and if it satisfies you, then release that to the world, and the chips will fall where they may. [sniffles] ♪♪♪ SARAH: Maybe making this movie really is my destiny, but why did Naomi have to have her destiny? And why do so many other girls, especially Black and Brown girls? I feel like my lip... Yeah, do you want, like, a red, or do you want... We could do, like, a deep color? Like... [click] ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ -Or mid-range. -Mid-range. -Like, not too dark. -Mid-range. But, like, okay. Like berries or plums. I don't know. Um... ♪♪♪ [bell dings] ♪♪♪ Even with this pink, though? -Yep. -I mean, it's bold. [click] [bell dings] It's what you feel comfortable with. I want you to feel comfortable. This whole--I'm supposed to, like, I was talking to you, Sadé, about this. -Yeah. -I was so clear, and now I can't stop thinking about how the majority of people who get into the sex industry are so young. I don't think I told you this, Sadé, but before I met you, I went and taught poetry workshops on Rikers Island. Oh. And it was for high school girls. So wait, think about that. There's a high school on Rikers for girls. You know they all look just like us, and the stuff they wrote about, it came out that so many of them were in there for solicitation, for prostitution, for-- for, like, prostitution-related, and I'm like, wait. You're 14. Like, you're a child. -That's a baby. -Right. Did I tell you I was on 14th Street? Uh, I think I was maybe 15 years old. Uh, and I was stopped by cops going to church in the morning. -6 a.m. -Wow. Yeah, they thought that I was going to see clients. I just--I just didn't know how to respond. -Right? I was scared. -'Cause how do you respond? I don't even think anyone prepares us for that conversation. -No. What do you say? That's not even something you're thinking about. -Yeah. -You know what I mean? What do you say? That never crosses your mind at that age. -Sadé... -That when you're going to church, a cop is gonna stop you and think you're working. -We learn very on-- very early on that, like, we have to just always be up-- like, our guard is always up for that, you know? -Always. -'Cause we always feel suspicious, even when we're not doing anything. I don't know if anyone else feels like that, but I-- -You know, right? -Yeah, I. It's like, does this make me look like I'm doing something? -Right. -Even though I'm not doing anything wrong, but, yeah. It's like it's in our bodies, right? Why is it always on us? I feel like we're always told "Don't be too grown." -Right. -Right. -Exactly. But why is it not... You know what I mean? -Yeah. -We always have to be the ones to think about that. -In control of ourselves. And at, like, 10 and 11, we shouldn't have to think about that. -You know what I mean? -Exactly. Or what I'm gonna wear. Am I gonna wear shorts? Am I gonna wear a skirt? Why am I not allowed to wear that if I--as I do? Yeah. What kind of attention am I gonna get if I wear a skirt? -Right. -And it's your fault. -Do I wanna be bothered? -Right. -Yes. If you get--Yeah, if you get that kind of attention, it's on us. -Right, and it's like, what if your body itself is criminal? This is all stuff that I just-- I feel like I can't tell the complete story if I'm just focused on this-- I'm sorry, like, white woman's narrative about "Oh, but sex work makes me feel so free." Yeah, makes you feel free, but what about other people who don't necessarily have a choice? Okay, is this you with the, um, with your flashers on? -[door bell dinging] -Hi. I'm not saying there aren't Black women who do find freedom in it, but it's not the majority. It's not my sister. Is it your first upfront? Yep, it's my first upfronts. Congratulations. I-I read what she said, and then I just kept thinking, okay, she's asking for freedom. She's talking about freedom, and I thought she meant freedom from all the messages we heard. "Keep your knees together. Black girls are gonna be more freaky and nasty," like all the videos we grew up on, video hoes. There's that side of it. Then there's the side of it that's, like, we have to be asexual, because we're so sexualized, then we have to swing the other way. You are on your way to church at 16. -Right. -At 6:00 in the morning. Probably 'cause you were being such a good girl. Like, where's our chance to be whatever we want? My hope is I get to make the movie that speaks to all of this. There's colorism. If you're light-skinned, you make more money 'cause white men want that, and that's who's buying. -Mm-hmm. If you're dark or Brown, you're this different kind of fetish. You can't make as much money. It's just too complicated to make it simple. Why are you doing the movie then? SARAH: What do you mean? SADÉ: Who are the people that own the movie studios? Sadé, if I can get my story out there, it's worth it. I mean, there's no way to do anything in this world without going through old white men. SADÉ: I mean, it's a matter of what are you willing to jeopardize to get there? And then what-- I get what you're saying, but, like... -Mm-hmm. -...at the end of the day, is it important to at least get the story out? You know, I'm not saying yes or no. I'm just posing a question. [indistinct conversations] [indistinct conversations continue] -Um, Nestor? -Yes. Can we turn around? I-I actually wanna go back to where you picked me up. -Yes. -Okay. Thank you. [exhales deeply] [telephone rings] NORA: Hi, Sarah. You're on with me and Robert and also Jack from the studio. Thanks, Nora. Hi, everybody. I know this is super last minute. It's fine, love. By the way, my daughter is so excited about the film. She wants to study sex work at university. This is gonna motivate so many girls. ROBERT: Are you in the car? I'm not, and actually, this is one of the most difficult calls. I-I can't go through with this. NORA: What do you mean, love? Uh, the upfronts, the movie, the corporate decrim slant. SARAH: Not as a Black woman. ♪♪♪ Not with all the ways we still don't control our own narratives, how we're underestimated, no matter how high we can climb, how we're shamed if we do, shamed if we don't, and even criminalized and forced into boxes that endanger our lives even as we occupy this land that echoes with native genocide and oppression of women and girls-- very young girls. ♪♪♪ I wish we lived in a reality where I could tell just one side of a story like that, but that's not the world we're in. This world is too complicated. NORA: Sorry, darling. I went through a tunnel. Could you repeat that? I missed everything you just said. Yep, exactly. Um, why don't you just have Robert fill you in? -Uh, I gotta go. -[beep] [exhales deeply] [cellphone buzzing] [messaging blooping] Yo! I wasn't expecting that. That's a plot twist. Well, I realized that, like, as a privileged white woman, my sex work heroes are, like, other privileged white women. Maybe I could, like, re-examine that whole space. I am proud of you, Mama. I knew you could do it. I mean, I was a little bit worried there for a second, but... [speaks Spanish] Well, I don't understand anything she said. But is anybody else hungry for a little nosh? Sarah, what do you feel like, honey? ["EmOG's" by Salaam Remi & Maimouna Youssef playing] I feel...kinda like... freedom. ♪ I can't sit around doin' the same old thing ♪ ♪ Same old thing ♪ ♪♪♪ ♪ I wish that you wouldn't ball ♪ ♪♪♪ ♪ You're just a block in the corner stall ♪ ♪ I wish that you could see the worlds I see ♪ ♪ We could be invincible ♪ ♪ Invincible ♪ ♪ Then this love could grow ♪ ♪ But you rather hug the block than hug me ♪ ♪ This ain't pay the fool in the 80s ♪ ♪ You see what that did to D.C. ♪ ♪ That ain't work out good for them OG's ♪ ♪ I don't wanna feel your hands ♪ ♪ Through bulletproof glass ♪ ♪♪♪ ♪ If you don't choose us ♪ ♪ This love ain't gonna last ♪ ♪ I ain't trying to cry through telephone static ♪ ♪ You riskin' it all ♪ ♪ And I ain't trying to have it ♪ ♪ I ain't trying to have it ♪ ♪ I wish you could see the world I see ♪ ♪ And we could be invincible ♪ ♪ Invincible ♪ ♪ And this love could grow ♪ ♪ But you rather hug the block than hug me ♪ ♪ This ain't pay the fool in the 80s ♪ ♪ You see what that did to D.C. ♪ ♪ That ain't work out good for them OG's ♪ ♪ Rather hug the block than hug me ♪ ♪ This ain't pay the fool in the 80s ♪ ♪ You see what that did to D.C. ♪ ♪ That ain't work out good for them OG's, them OG's ♪ ♪♪♪ [vocalizing] ♪♪♪ ♪♪♪ [line ringing] So...you just gon' not answer my calls? Well...