Transcript for Allie & Me (1997) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (cheerful upbeat music) - I guess they came in through the screen and somehow the alarm didn't work and um, I don't know, they told me, but I don't know. - There we go. (door squeaks) - Somebody very strong next to her was leading her. Something tells me that Allie was not the ringleader of something like that. I just, I just don't, I think that someone must have put her up to it. I don't think she thinks that way. Although-- - To be honest with you, I wasn't shocked. - No, I wasn't shocked either, I mean-- - Michelle was an accident waiting to happen. She's just so full of anger and angst. - I found out about these events. I was vacationing in Acapulco at Las Brisas with my friend and um, I got this hysterical call and I answered the phone and uh, and they told me that my son, my sweet boy had been accosted and tied up and hit on the head and I was hysterical, I truly was hysterical. I mean, I came back immediately. I even took economy to get back here. (upbeat cheerful music) - [Michelle] What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. That is so true. It's always those lowest moments, those worst experiences that you look back and you say, "Yeah, if that hadn't happened, where would I be now?" (cheerful upbeat music) - [Detective] Diamond necklace, gold watch, um, a hairdryer, a cosmetics, I think, Revlon nail polish, um, some perfume-- - [Michelle] My name is Michelle Halliburton, ex Malibu housewife, cat burglar, kidnapper and about to be felon, convicted of robbery. Also, kidnapping, false imprisonment, nine counts of burglary, possession of stolen property. - Gold bracelet, emerald ring and bracelet and um-- - [Michelle] This is Detective Frank Richards and that is Detective Simon Burke. Kinda cute, isn't he? Don't worry, I've had it with men. - [Burke] Diamond brooch, cosmetics, um-- - Diamond bracelet. - [Burke] Diamond bracelet, diamond bracelet. - All right, Michelle, according to this financial statement, got your Jag, husband's got a Mercedes, you've got a home here in Malibu. What, you have all this money, why are you causing these burglaries? Why are you? - Revenge. - [Richards] You've been saying that, revenge, revenge, revenge from what? - It's actually very metaphorical and symbolic of who she is about her abandonment issues and, and her, um, almost like the kidnapping and the torturing was like a part of herself. Do you follow what I'm saying? Don't you agree with that? - Well it's a very important point that it's symbolic. It's symbolic, I think of, because I know her pretty well. I was married to her for four years and I know her intimately and uh, I think it's symbolic of a very early narcissistic injury that she had probably in the first, oh-- - They say these things happen in the first, anywhere, like first six months of-- - Yeah, the first months of her life. Probably what happened, I mean, uh, I never met her mother, but she talked about her mother-- - Oh, I heard terrible, terrible stories-- - Yeah, and I think that her mother was also very narcissistic and I think probably abandoned her at some point. - [Detective] All right Allie, we went over with Michelle the string of robberies that you two were involved with. Now Detective Burke here is gonna run them by you. See if this makes sense to you. Go ahead, first one there. - Okay Allie, uh, Carol Schweiker, um, you two broke into her house, took cosmetics and jewelry. Anna Stewart, same. Nicole Weizmann, uh her gold bracelet, her emerald ring and some things from her bathroom. Rose Paledgy, Grace Lumpock and finally, Camille Alexander. - You realize what happened, what was done here, right? Why did you steal? - Allie, do you know why you're here? Do know that you're in a lot of trouble? - I'm slow, I'm not stupid. - [Burke] I know, Allie. - [Christine] Allie. - This is so beautiful, honey. - Can I have you for a minute, honey? (woman chatting quietly) - Honey, I need you to get Karen a smock, okay? - [Allie] Okay. - No no no, Allie, Allie, that's okay, let go for a minute sweetheart. Take this, okay? To the back room and then when you come back from the back room, bring a smock. Thank you. Poppy. - [Michelle] This is my best and only friend and partner in crime, Allie. Allie works at Brown's Salon which is owned and operated by Christine Brown. (whispering quietly) - (whispering) You know that. You have to be a very gentle, like you are, okay? Just be like you are, very gentle, very easy. - Okay Christine. - Thank you. - Uh, many of my patrons are very wealthy people so they're involved with a lot of charities and I went with one of my friends one weekend to this community center where they had developmentally impaired people present and that's where I met Allie. And it was, you know, like when you meet, it's like that man, woman thing, that connection or that woman, woman thing and I just adored her and it was an immediate lock-in. And she wanted to work and she was so eager and so I said, "Well come to the salon." And she did and she was great. - Do you like it? - [Woman] No. (laughing) - She used to fold the towels and she used to wipe the lady's hair and uh, she said she had always had a dream about being a manicurist and I wanted to help her make those dreams come true. So, that's how it started and I must say, it progressed really very well for a while. - 45. - No you're not, like maybe you're 20. You look beautiful. - Actually have it chopped to the ears. - No I don't think so, I don't think that's gonna help you. - It's a sign of maturity. - No. - Oh thank you, you are the, you are terrific, it's there, thank you. - [Man] Leave it, trust me. - [Michelle] Everyone goes to Brown's salon. Everyone with too much money and nothing better to do that is. They sit around and gossip and hang out and they talk about which vacation spot they'll be going to that month. All Allie has to do is listen. - Well yeah, but just not the full head because I have to get to the airport. - That's, where are you going? - [Woman] I'm going up to the new house in Park City. - [Stylist] Ah, fabulous, isn't that great. - Yeah, it's great, it's like the country. It's two hours, door to door. - Is that all? - I was not aware that Allie was using Christine. I was not aware of any of this. I just thought she was such a simple minded creature, I didn't think she was capable of anything like this. - [Michelle] So, Allie gets the addresses and Christine, being the smart business woman that she is, always includes everyone's birthday. Then she calls, gives them to me so she won't make a mistake or forget and the rest is easy. - Hello, this is Allie. The appointment for 5:30. The address is 225 and an eighth. - [Michelle] An eighth? There's no eighth in any mansion I've ever seen, Allie. Read it again. - [Allie] 225 and a half. - Great. Okay, Allie, I'm gonna be there to pick you up in a minute, but just-- (Allie talking quietly) Don't hang up, Allie. Allie, don't hang up. (phone clatters) - (laughing) Did you see the look on his face? I can't, I cannot, no. (laughing) Oh you always do that to me. Would you hold on just a minute. Can I help you, sir? - Yeah. - [Christine] Oh my goodness, is this is a real one? - Uh, yes ma'am. - [Christine] Are you real? - Yes ma'am. - This is, I've gotta, I've gotta policeman here. I can't. Yeah, no I can't. Goodbye. Hello, I'm sorry. - I'm Lieutenant Richards, Detective Burke. - [Christine] Hello. - Hi. - Detective Burke, how are you? - And your name is? - Christine-- - Christine. Yeah, there's been some uh, robberies in your neighborhood and some of the patrons that come in here are some of the people who have been victimized by these robberies. - Right. - So we wanna come in here, we wanna do a little question, standard procedures, maybe talk to some of your personnel, get some background-- - Sh sh sh, could you just hold your voice down. People spend a lot of money here. They come here once, maybe twice, maybe three times a week to get rest, relaxation away from home. I have to provide them that. I can't allow anybody to come in and ask them questions. You can ask me all the questions you want. - Well we either question 'em here or we take 'em down to the police station. You want me to do that? - Gentlemen, this is my business. I started this before it was a hole in the wall. You just can't come in here with a badge and-- - [Burke] You wanna see, you wanna see 'em down at the station? - I'm gonna, I'm gonna-- - You own this place? - [Christine] I'm not gonna do this anymore now. I want you outta here. - Well what are you gonna do-- - [Christine] I want you out. - We're investigating-- - [Christine] I want you outta here. (arguing over each other) - We're fine, we're fine. - [Christine] Listen, listen to the ruckus you're making. - And that's the last thing we wanna do. - We coulda just walked in here and it would have been quietly and gotten out of here. - Would it be possible for us to speak to a few of your people, separate from everyone else? We won't cause a stink-- - You mean the staff? - Yes, please. - A, L, - L. - L, - L. - I, - I. - E. - E, Allie. And Allie, what's your last name please? - D, - [Burke] D. - A, - A. - [Allie] D, - D. - [Allie] A, - A. - [Allie] D, - D. - [Allie] A. - A. - [Allie] D. - D. Dadadad. - Dadadad. Allie Dadadad. - Dadadad. - [Allie] Greek. - Yes, may I call you Allie? - Yes. - Okay. Uh, have you heard anything about any break-ins in this part of town around the salon? - No. - [Burke] No, so none of your customers or coworkers, anyone has said anything about them? - That would be no. - No? - No. - Can you absolutely say that no one like that-- - Absolutely no. May I? - [Burke] Please. - My boss loves something and I'd just like to show it to you. It's a way to release tension. It's something I practiced in school. You see how I'm turning your wrist? - [Burke] Yes, I do. - And a roll and if you get into a roll like this, plus, let me show you this. Taking out the tension, take out the tension. Is that hurting you? - Yeah well just a little bit-- - I'm sorry, it shouldn't hurt you. (jazzy music) (engine humming) (jazzy music) But the other thing is, can you relax your head? You're a little tense. Maybe your job and the questions, just relax it, let it go. - Yeah, I really do need to ask you a few questions, if you don't mind, I mean-- - Simon you're not relaxing. Questions will get answers better if you relax. - Hey, what the hell's going on here? Simon, what the hell are you doing? - [Burke] Just actually asking some questions. - What do you think this is, a game, party's here for Christ sakes? Come on, get outside and do some work out there for Christ sakes. You're starting to lose it, Simon, you know that? Just get outside, will you? You're getting on my nerves for Christ sakes. - Excuse me, sir? I don't-- - You're getting soft! - I don't think you should yell at him-- - Get over there. We got an investigation going on here now. Just sit down there, will you please, Allie? Whatever the heck your name is? - [Allie] Don't be so grumpy. - You know, I'm not, you know what? Talking to you is like talking into a tunnel. Now I'm starting to hear my own echo. - I wish you would just have a better attitude. You got love troubles? - I'm trying to, I don't have love troubles. I'm just trying to get the answers to a couple of questions here, now if we-- - Why don't you let me give you a little finger massage. You're too tense. (Burke sighs) - [Michelle] You look a little upset. - What? I'm sorry. - [Michelle] You look a little upset. - [Burke] Long day. - It's a beautiful day, though. - Yeah, just kind of killing time, are you? - Well I'm picking someone up. - Oh. I'm a cop and you're in a no parking zone. - Oh, I'm-- - Simon Burke. - [Michelle] Nice to meet you, I'm just waiting for my girlfriend here and uh-- - Oh no no no no no, please, take your time. - [Michelle] You sure about that? - Positive, positive. - [Michelle] Okay, well she should be out any minute now. Um, Allie! (honks horn) - Allie is your friend? - [Michelle] Uh, yeah. - Oh. - [Michelle] You know Allie? - [Allie] Wow. (laughs) Oh hi. - We're gonna be late, Allie. - I saw you before. - Let's go, Allie. - He's gonna come and have spaghetti at our house. - Oh great. Come on-- - Don't forget, spaghetti at our house on Tuesday. - I don't, I don't, - Bye. - [Burke] What was your name? - Spaghetti at our house, Michelle and Allie. - Nice meeting you. - Bye Allie. - [Allie] You ought to consider Simon. - [Michelle] Forget Simon. - [Allie] Why should I forget Simon? - [Michelle] I will not be going out with a cop. I don't care about that. - [Allie] Well I don't believe that. - Are you ready? - [Allie] Yes. - If the door's open, we have 30 seconds, okay? - [Allie] All right, I'll start counting, I'll start counting. - Start counting. Yes, go! (alarm beeping) (energetic music) - I knew that most rich people don't lock their sliding doors because either they forget or their kids need to get in or they don't trust their servants not to go and make copies of the keys. They figure they have an alarm, so what's the point? They're also usually busy and preoccupied and they just use their birthdays for the code. This is nice. Here we go. Allie, what are you doing in there? - Nothing. - [Michelle] Hurry up. - Okay. (cheerful music) - They didn't take the TV. They didn't take big items. They didn't take the stocks, anything like that or art and I had just come back from Paris and they took all the cosmetics, all my cosmetics that I had just bought and hair, old curling irons, you know from, it was very odd. - Well they had some things to say about you, Dustin and Miss Nanski, um-- - [Michelle] I'm sure they have. - Kleptomaniac, needed therapy, but refused it. - Well, I'm not a kleptomaniac. - [Burke] But uh, unstable and-- - Well I don't find myself to be unstable. - But why would they say these things about you? - Well I thought it was a good relationship, but obviously it wasn't. Think I was a little naive. (sighs) I married Dustin Halliburton, who I thought loved me. I devoted myself to his every whim. When he said I looked fat, I went on a diet. When he said I was uptight in bed, I took sexual freedom classes. In the end, nothing I could do would ever please him. (door slams) (door creaks) Dustin? Dustin? Dustin. (moaning) (sexy music) - Oh hi honey. Um, boy you're home awful early. - Oh yeah. - Weren't you supposed to be having lunch with what's her name, the-- - I was stood up, yeah. - Oh uh, Mr. Tanaka called from the nursery and uh, he wanted to know if it would be all right to deliver the Ficus tomorrow. - Oh. - Angela um, she came over um-- - (crying) I've had a really shitty day. - She's had a really, really bad day. Um, because uh, she um-- - I um, I ran over Lily. - Lily, her dog, she ran over her dog. Just flat as a pancake and uh, well he's dead. - [Michelle] He's dead? - Yeah. - He's dead. (crying) - [Michelle] Oh no. - You know how close she was to Willy and uh, well, we were just uh, we were talking and um, and uh-- - Uh, Angela Nanski and um, Michelle is a very close friend of mine. - Uh, Dustin Halliburton and Michelle is my wife. We're actually, we're in the middle of a divorce right now, but um, technically, we're still married. We were married for uh, four years. - Mm mm. - We were married for four years, but I knew her for a couple years before that. - Okay, yeah that's right. - You introduced us, didn't you? - Yes, I did. - What year was that? - Oh boy, what uh, '88. - Like seven years ago? - Seven, seven and a half years. - Time flies, woo. (feet clomping) (chaotic chattering) - Michelle, he made me do it, Michelle. - [Dustin] What do you mean I made you do it? - I have no idea. - What are you talking about? I didn't make you do anything. Michelle! She's overreacting. Michelle. Hey hey hey hey, come on, sweetheart, listen. Listen to me, that was nothing, really. I don't want you to overreact to this, I'm serious. - [Michelle] Oh you're serious. (chaotic chattering) (engine hums) - Angie, shut up! - [Angela] Why are you yelling at me? Why are you yelling at me? - Angie, listen, she's my wife, all right? I don't want her to get the wrong impression about this. (Angela crying) - [Michelle] Well I didn't know that things were about to go from bad to worse. I called my so called friends. They all knew about Angela and Dustin and not one of them was willing to help me. It was like it was my fault. Dustin had been unhappy for a long time. Angela had been crying every night for months about it, months. That bitch, I was so humiliated. My whole life was unraveling in front of me. I panicked, I fumed, I screamed, but nothing seemed to help. - She wouldn't go to therapy, she just wouldn't-- - Wouldn't, wouldn't even touch it. - Yeah-- - I mean, we'd bring it up, it was like, you know-- - We'd both been in therapy-- - Out the door-- - How many years? - (sighs) Let me see, uh, 15? - 15 years, 15 years. Oh, she has many more than I do, but still, it's a really important thing to do-- - Wait a minute. I'm sorry. - What? - Many more? (laughs) - Well-- - 15, what do you-- - Well that's a long time to be in therapy. (unamused laughing) (playful music) (muttering) - [Michelle] As I drove, I thought about what a farce my life has been so far. I was so upset I forgot that I was already on empty and my warning light wasn't working on the fuel gauge, as usual. (dog barking) (playful music) In a way, breaking down that night was the best thing that ever happened to me because if I hadn't broken down, I would have never met Allie. She was so sweet and caring and just wanted to help me, but at the same time, she knew who she was and what she wanted. She was entitled in a way that for everything I had, I never was. That's something that never ceases to amaze me about her. - Excuse me, are you okay? - Yeah. (crying) Yes, I think, no, can I borrow $5.00? - Lady? - What? Okay-- - come on up. - [Michelle] Oh thank you, thank you. (crying) I ran out of gas. - [Allie] You know, you've got to breath, try to breath. - Okay. (labored breathing) Okay, thank you. - You know, you broke your nail. - [Michelle] I did? - Yeah. Wait a second, let me open up, okay? Breath, keep breathing. You ran out of gas? - Yeah. - It's gonna be okay. - Okay. - Come on in. - [Michelle] Thank you. - I can't give you $5.00. - [Michelle] What? - I can't give you $5.00. I'm on a tight budget money management. - But I'm, I'll give it right back to you. - I can't give it to you. - What do you mean you can't give it to me? - Can I make a suggestion? - What? - Breath. (breathing) - I just need $5.00! That's all I need is $5.00, you don't have $5.00? - I'll tell you what-- - What? - I'll walk you to the gas station-- - Great. - I'll pay the gas man-- - Okay. - We'll walk back. - [Michelle] Okay. - But then, I have to go with you to get your wallet to pay me back the $5.00-- - Thank you. - And you have to drive me back. (engine humming) - You wait here. - [Allie] Okay. - I will be right back. - Look, you haven't exactly been there for me emotionally or physically. I mean, if you think about-- - I haven't? - Last Saturday night? - [Michelle] Yeah? - Okay, last Saturday night, what happened last Saturday night? I wanted to jump all over you, what did you do? - Sorry! - Well now come on, now listen. It comes down to this, it's a psychological thing. I had a narcissistic injury when I was about four years old. Okay, I remember this very clearly. Well the thing is that Angela, what she brings out in me, she brings out my inner child. - Oh really? - This is so important. See, you've never really listened to me about this stuff, but it's really important. See, my inner child is fighting to get out. And Angela, her inner child has already come out so the two of us-- - Perfect! - No no no, I mean, I'm telling you, it's all a psychological-- - [Allie] Michelle, do you need my help? - Yes, please put that in there. - [Allie] Okay. - Who's this? - This is Allie. - [Allie] Who are you? - I own this house. Who are you? I've never seen this person in my life. What is she doing here? - She is the only person that's helped me all day. Thank you. - Wait a minute, Michelle, what are you doing? - We're leaving. - Listen, Michelle, please-- - It's over, forget it. - Who are you anyway? - [Michelle] Allie, come on. - Who is this person? - And I said, "Why don't you stay?" And so she stayed and then together we would do things, eat dinner, go for a walk, watch TV. Michelle. Michelle. It's time to get up and go out. - I don't wanna get up. - [Allie] You can't stay in bed all the time, Michelle. - Why? I don't have anything to get up for. - Well how about a manicure? Have you thought about the job that you might get? - [Michelle] I don't have any skills. - [Allie] Michelle, you can do a lot of things. - [Michelle] Oh no I can't. - [Allie] Yes you can, look at your hands. I can tell everything by somebody's hands. You're clean and you're organized and you're careful. - So I'll be a nice maid. You are good at this though, Allie. Where do you work? - [Allie] Brown's Salon. - (clears throat) Brown's Salon? - Mmhmm. - [Michelle] That's where Carol Schweiker goes. - Yes, Mrs. Schweiker. Very rich big haired lady? - [Michelle] Mmhmm. - Always goes away every weekend with different relatives. I guess her husband has a girlfriend. - Really? - Oh yeah. - (laughs) Well you know, she borrowed a few things of mine and hasn't returned 'em. Carol Schweiker was one of my so called friends who wasn't there for me when I needed her. She didn't have any of my stuff, but I wanted to get back at her and I needed the money. - Do you want me to ask her for them? - Oh, she's not a very nice person. I don't think she's gonna return 'em that easily. - Want me to go get 'em? - How about if I go with you? That first burglary was done in anger. It was my way of lashing out at the people who'd abandoned me. They failed to show the love and support I felt I deserved, but the next one was definitely for fun. It's pretty easy, isn't it? Just looking in that Rolodex and grabbing a few addresses nobody'll miss. No biggie, huh? - Uh huh. - Well, I was just thinking, you want that manicuring salon, right? - [Allie] Yeah. - And you deserve it. - [Allie] Yeah. - You know how long it'll take you to save up to get your manicuring salon, Allie? - How long? - About 100 years. - 100 years? - [Michelle] mmhmm. - That's too long. - That's what I'm saying. So I was thinking, we might want to go to some other houses and help you out. No what? No you don't want your manicuring salon? - No, I don't wanna steal. - Well you know, they have insurance, it's not really a big deal. They'll never miss it. But you, it'll help. Okay okay okay, so, I did have my own motives, but I did wanna help Allie. Really I did, especially after what that little jerk, Rodney, did to her. - [Richards] Michelle, this brings us to the more serious charge, Rodney Alexander claims that you kidnapped him, assaulted him, you deprived him of food. We'll read some of the stuff that he's got here. - Well the uh, uh, the official report is kidnapping, assault, attempted rape, um, but he specifically said that he was tied up with duct tape for five days, wasn't allowed to eat or drink anything, almost a ritualistic sexual abuse, um and torture. Um, he was beaten, he was beaten with whatever he said, with um-- - Brooms-- - A broom, a hand, and a um-- - He's got bruises, Michelle. - It was my hand-- - He didn't get these from being tied up. - It was my hand. - And the reason you did all this is because he's a bad guy, but you're not telling us why he's a bad guy. What did he do to you personally? What did he do to you? - He didn't do anything to me, but Allie's my only friend and he's not a nice guy. Rodney was spoiled, selfish, narcissistic, arrogant and self-absorbed, your typical male specimen. He also happened to be an alcoholic, pill popping, chain smoking loser. - [Woman] You look beautiful, look at you. - (laughs) Thanks. - [Woman] You've been drinking. - No, I had this Irish Cream coffee, we've gotta go, mom, come on. - [Woman] Oh, I'll be about 20 minutes. - We don't have 20 minutes. - [Woman] What do you mean we don't have 20-- - We don't have 20 minutes-- - [Woman] I have 20-- - Top of the hour-- - relax. I want you to relax. Will you lower your voice? Just lower your voice, relax and just take a little breath because I'm not in any hurry. - Rodney, you want a cold drink or something? - No no, I'm okay, thanks. - [Woman] If I don't make this plane, I'll make the next plane. - All right fine, you wanna wait two hours? - [Woman] What do you mean wait two hours? - It's gonna be a two hour layover. - [Woman] No, it's a direct plane. - That's okay, I'll book another flight, all right? - Oh, I'm sorry! Oh my God, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. (chaotic yelling) (chattering) - [Christine] Allie, go relax for a minute. - [Woman] Just wash it off. Honey, you have to be more careful. - I was careful. - I can't believe this, man. (sighs) - Mr. Alexander? - [Mr. Alexander] Whoa, excuse me, oh, I'm in the bathroom right now. - Well I just came in to give you this neutralizer so I could fix your pants. - That's okay, it's all right, I I I'd just like to be-- (talking over each other) - [Allie] I'm not looking, Mr. Alexander, I'm not looking at you, see? I'm just fixing your pants. - Thank you. I uh, can I have my pants back, thank you. Thank you very much, I just would like to get changed. Is that all right? - [Allie] All right Mr. Alexander, I'm not looking. - Okay thank you. - I'm sorry this happened. - It's all right, thank you very much. - [Allie] I'm sorry. - [Christine] It was just um-- - Thank you. - Mr. Alexander-- - You know um, there were a couple of accidents um, she um, she got bleach on this guy's whatsis and um well she spilled bleach on this man's um, she impaired this man's testicles. Um, he hasn't been the same since. (cheerful music) - Mr. Alexander? - Oh my God! - Uh, could I just ask one thing, Mr. Alexander? - Would you just excuse me for a moment while I'm trying to get changed? - I just wanna ask you as a way of apologizing if you'd like to have dinner with me at 5:30 tonight, early bird supper at my home? - That would be fine, that would be fine, thank you and you know what? I would love that. Perfect, why don't you give me one of your cards and I will give you a call as soon as I am done dropping my mother off at the airport. - I'm Allie-- - Is it on your card? Allie, I'm Rodney. - Hi Rodney. - Nice to meet you. - Tonight dinner? - Tonight. - 5:30. - 5:30. - Early bird supper-- - Thank you. (Rodney sighs) - [Michelle] That means you asked him out on the date, huh? - Yeah, that's okay though, I'm a new age woman. He didn't mind. He took my phone number and address and he said-- - Oh, that's great. - You're gonna call me for dinner, aren't you? - Yeah, thanks. - [Allie] Don't forget to call me though Rodney. Don't forget. - Whoa whoa whoa, what happened, look at you. - I know, I know, what can I say? (chattering over one another) - Allie. Allie? - What do you mean by that? - Oh, I don't mean anything by that. - You just said you're having a hard time believing that somebody from the salon would ask me out on a date. - Well you know-- - What, I'm not pretty? What, I'm not smart? - No. - What? I don't make a lot of money? - No. - What, I don't look like you? Let me tell you something, Rodney likes me. He's taking me, well he's coming for dinner here. - That's not what meant, Allie. - I'll tell you what I mean, leave me alone, Michelle, I'm gonna prepare myself by fixing my hair and I don't want any interference from you. - Allie-- - Nope. I had the last word. I'm getting my hair fixed. - Allie-- - No. - That's not at all what I meant. - [Allie] I'm sorry, I'm not available. - Allie, come back here! Allie! - Shoo! (sighs) Allie, I'm sorry. Jesus. (door rattling) (door squeaks) What have you done to your hair? - I fried it. - Oh my, oh, don't panic. Allie, um, it's okay, it's okay, don't panic. I think I can do something with it. You happy? - I'm happy. When are you gonna leave? - As soon as he gets here, I'm out of here, okay? I promise. - Good. - [Michelle] I felt bad about hurting Allie's feelings, but I was only trying to protect her, but that's when I realized that here was someone who really needed me, that I could do something for someone else. - When are you going? - Are you sure you want me to go? - No. Maybe he got hit by a bus. Maybe he lost my address and my phone number? Or maybe he's busy. - Yeah, maybe he's busy. I don't think he's coming, Allie. - I don't think so either. (sighs) Why don't we eat? - Allie, how do you feel about markets? Do you like markets? - I like to go shopping. - Do you like to shop? You know when you go into markets and those plastic bags that you can pull down? You know that sound they make? - Crack. - That's right, the crackle and the brown bags, they go (exhales) and they put the air into 'em and they all fill up and sometimes you blow 'em and put a rubber band and (claps) I was thinking that maybe a place like a market would be a really good place for you to work. - I wanna work here. I gonna be a manicurist. I wanna have my own beauty salon. I'm not gonna work in a supermarket. I like 'em, but I don't wanna work in one. - But think about the ice cream counters and the cookie counters and potato chip counters and all those really neat-- - Christine? If you let me stay, if you let me stay, I won't take any money and I'll work my way back up and you'll see how good I do. (crying) You have to give me this one more little chance. I didn't make mistakes every time. I've been here a long time, Christine and I've done some really good things, haven't I? - You wanna hear something really crazy? You even look pretty to me with your orange hair. See, 'cause in my heart, I think you're pretty and I love you, I do. - Please don't make me go away, please-- - Listen to me, Allie, I was just, I've got this feeling and I just have to, I, you know, you learn things as you go through life, you learn and Allie, do you know that Mrs. Alexander's son is gonna sue me for what happened to his whatsis? - Rodney wouldn't do that. He's my friend, he likes me. - He's suing us. - Well he likes me and I can talk to him. - But I like you too. It has nothing to do with it. - Please please (crying) don't do this to me. - Allie-- - Let me tell you what I'll do-- - Allie-- - I'll prove it to you, (crying) I'll give you a manicure right now. - There were just things that happened like that. I mean, she cut patron's fingers when she'd manicure them and um, she's a precious girl, but I don't think she'd hurt anyone or ever do anything wrong. - Well I'm gonna get a manicuring salon after I get my manicuring license. - (sighs) How are you gonna do that? - Rodney's mother's out of town. - So? - She's in Mexico. - So? - We could go over there. - Let's go. I know that you're probably surprised that this was all Allie's idea, but Allie enjoyed the game as much as I did. We weren't just two losers, broke, unemployed and single, we were cat burglars, glamorous, powerful and in charge of our destiny. (playful music) I read this pamphlet on alarm systems and the stupid thing is, is that most of them are hooked up to security monitoring companies through a regular phone line. All you have to do is disconnect the outside line and there's no way for the alarm to go off. As it turns out, I didn't even need to worry, the house was all open like a present waiting to be unwrapped. Wow, looks like somebody had a party here last night. Oh Allie, the door is open. Are you sure uh, two weeks, huh? - Yeah, she's in Acapulco. - Okay. Take it easy. Look at this. Whoa looks like there was a party here last night. (jazzy music) Nice view. (jazzy music) - Terrible housekeeping. - Whoa, we're here to rob your house. - Yeah, you heard her! We're here to rob your house. We're robbing it. - All right, let's go check out the merchandise. - Ow. Yeah, let's check out the stuff. Ow. (jazzy music) (Michelle whistling) - Ah, here we are. Allie no, get out of the bathroom now, come on. We have plenty of beauty supplies, Allie, come on, let's go. - I need these beauty supplies, Michelle, I need 'em. Woo. Ah! (man grunting) (Allie screaming) - Man, Jesus Christ-- - Oh my God! Oh my God. (Rodney coughing) - What the hell are you doing? What are you doing here? - Rodney-- - What? I know you, what are you doing in my mother's bed? - What's going on? Come on, let's go! (everyone talking over one another) (Rodney grunts) - Oh my God. (Rodney groans) (Allie whimpers) You killed him. - No. Oh no, he's not dead. Oh shit. - Well what, what, what is it? - Shit! - What what? (Michelle sighs) Michelle, what is it? - We can't leave. - Why? - He saw us. - Oh. - Oh God. - He saw us. What are we gonna do? - Well we'll have to-- - Go, we've got to go back, go, go on. (Michelle mutters) You get him in a chair, I'm gonna go get something to tie him up with. - Okay. Excuse me, Rodney. (jazzy music) (Allie grunting) Gee. (Allie grunting) Ow. (jazzy music) - Want that, yes. (drawer slams) (Allie grunting) Allie, quit screwing around. Come on. (Allie grunting) - Oh my God, Michelle, he's on my arm. - Oh come on. - What do you mean? Get him off of that side. I'm under his, (pained yelling) oh my God. - Come on. (engine humming) (jazzy music) (door humming) (Rodney groans) (Rodney gasping) - (laughing) What the fuck is this man? This is very funny. (grunting) Hey, okay, I'm sober, man! Come on, you can untie me, all right? Oh fuck, I'm gonna kill you! Hey hey, (yelling incoherently) come and untie me, okay? - He's screaming. - [Rodney] Jesus Christ! - Oh my God, he's screaming. - This is fucking illegal! This is kidnapping! God dammit! Oh my God, oh my God, I'm gonna fucking panic. Untie me, untie me right now. - Rodney, all right. - Untie me, untie me right now! - Calm down, breath! - Untie me right now, don't tell me to sh, just untie me, okay-- - Rodney, I'll until you-- - Okay. - Shh, shh-- - Okay, all right man. - Don't wake anybody else up like Michelle. - [Michelle] Rodney, would you shut up? - Don't tell me to shut up, untie me. - Calm down, Rodney. Think beautiful thoughts, Rodney, think beautiful thoughts. - Just untie me! - Michelle, - Okay, this is like kidnapping. - Shut up! - Untie me. (muffled protesting) - Oh my God, Jesus, goodnight. - Untie me! I'm Rodney Alexander! (muffled protesting) Untie me! (Allie yelps) Untie me! - I'm sorry, Rodney. - Untie me. - I'm sorry. - No please, no no, please, please, please come here. - Just try to relax. Breath, Rodney, good thoughts. Think good thoughts, Rodney. - Come here. - [Allie] I can't. - (crying) I am fucking pissed! (birds chirping) - [Burke] Okay, so this was just another burglary and he happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time? - Mmhmm. - [Burke] I have a question is why wouldn't, I mean five days, that doesn't make sense to me, keeping him bound for five days when you're usually in and out of your victim's home. - Well, that's how long we decided to stay there. (cassette clicks) (sassy jazzy music) ♪ Oh I love the way you move sometimes ♪ ♪ I give back this feeling boy and rolled on ♪ ♪ Baby you knew what to do ♪ ♪ I just wanna say thank you, come on ♪ ♪ For doing it to me, oh ♪ (water splashes) ♪ Baby, yeah ♪ ♪ Can we do that again ♪ ♪ Uh huh ♪ ♪ Baby, yeah ♪ ♪ 'Cause it feels so good, so right, uh huh ♪ ♪ Oh yeah ♪ ♪ Just a little to the right ♪ - Oh my God ♪ I could go on like a star all night ♪ Disgusting. (water hissing) (distant music playing) ♪ Can we do that again ♪ ♪ Oh baby, yeah ♪ ♪ 'Cause it feels so good, so right, oh ♪ - It's something a guy like Simon could never understand. He's a cop, after all. We stayed because it was a nice house. There was a pool and a refrigerator full of smoked salmon and caviar. Egyptian cotton sheets, a good stereo and plenty of margaritas. I knew that it wouldn't last forever, but I didn't care. For those few days, we were living for the moment. I still think of those days as some of the best of my life. Of course, there was one major dark cloud on our horizon. (Rodney gasps) - Oh my God. You're gonna kill me like that, man. I got allergies, I can't breath through my left nostril, okay, I got a deviated septum and this is like a wool carpet, okay? I'm allergic to wool. Please just don't put that on my mouth again. - All right, I'm sorry, Rodney. - (sighs) Who are you? Huh? - [Allie] Allie. - Allie, what do you want from me, Allie? - You gotta keep up your strength. Let me give you some food. - No, I don't want any food, thank you. - Rodney, you need to eat. Go ahead, some nice orange juice, vitamin C. Good, huh? - Yes. - [Allie] Okay and here's some eggs. - I don't want any food, I'm not hungry. - Oh come on Rodney-- - Allie. - It's good-- - I don't want any fuckin' room service, okay? Just get that offa me, all right? - [Allie] Rodney, Rodney be nice. - Okay, look, what do you want from me? What do you need? - I'm the girl that you had a date with, an early bird supper and you didn't show up and I fried my hair and it turned into red and I got fired. That's who I am, Rodney. - We had a date? - I had a date with you. - (laughs) This is about a date? - [Allie] This is about you hurting my feelings-- - You've got me tied up 'cause I stood you up on a date? What, are you mad? Are you out of your fucking mind? Do you know, you could go up on charges for burglary, for assault, for a hostage situation, for kidnapping, I mean-- - Don't say those things. - We're talking about seven or eight years in the California State Penitentiary, man. Do you wanna-- - Don't say those things, Rodney. - It's the truth. - No, Rodney-- - It's the truth. If you untie me, I swear to God, I'll have you absolved of all char, is that my mother's shirt? - I just borrowed it. - Is that my mother's shirt? - Rodney! - Oh man, what are you wearing my mother's clothes for? - [Allie] I thought it looked nice on me. - (exhales) Oh, this is so weird. This is so fuckin' weird. - [Allie] Can I give you some advice, Rodney? - Oh yeah, please, please do. - You'd better start being nice! - What do you mean nice? - Nice to me! - You fucking untie me! (yelling over each other) If you don't untie me right now, I swear to God, when I break free of this, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'll kill you! All right? - All right Rodney-- - I take that back-- - You went too far. - I won't kill ya. - I will not be talking to you again-- - All right, just untie me, I'm sorry-- - Not today! - I'm sorry, I went over the line. - And I'm speaking to Michelle about all this. - I went over the line, I'm sorry. - That's it. - Don't don't leave me. Don't leave me, come back here. Come back here, I'm sorry. I was just joking, okay? I'm not gonna kill ya. All right, I'll cooperate. (gentle piano music) - Allie? What's the matter? What's wrong? (gentle piano music) What did he do? What did he say? Tell me. - He doesn't like me. - [Michelle] He doesn't like you? - [Allie] It's not him, Michelle, it's me. - No it's not, it's not you. It doesn't have anything to do with you. He's not a nice person in case you haven't noticed. - I'm not pretty. - No. - I'm not smart. - [Michelle] Allie, you're beautiful and you're smart and it has nothing to do with you. (Allie crying) Did you hear me? Do you understand? (gentle piano music) (Allie crying) (Rodney sighs) What'd you say to her? - What? - What'd you say to her? - What do you mean, what'd I say to her? I told her untie me. - [Michelle] You've upset her now. - I've upset her? This joke has gone far enough. You wanna know something-- - I don't think you're in the position to argue with me right now. I want you to be nice to Allie. - Are you out of your fucking mind? You've got me tied to a chair! - [Michelle] I suggest you just relax and be nice to her. - I can't relax, I'm tied to a chair. What do you want? You tell me what you want. Whatever you want, you name it, you got it. - Are you through? - Untie me! - You know what, I'll be back when your attitude's better. - [Rodney] No, you untie me now! Get back here! You get back here! Michelle! (cheerful music) Can I talk to you a minute? - [Allie] I'd better go. I gotta-- - Oh come on, I'll do it. - Okay Michelle, look, you're right, I'm willing to negotiate here, I'm willing to compromise. Can I speak to you for a moment please? - You called? - (sighs) Thank you, yes. Uh, all right, (sighs) I'm just a product of my environment, okay? And I don't know what I did in the karmic circle of life to sort of deserve this particular situation, but whatever it is, I'm sure it's justified in your eyes and I'm willing to apologize and to acquiesce to whatever it is that you need. What do you need me to do? - I need you to be nice to Allie. I need you to be real nice to her. I need you to make her feel special-- - You need me to be nice to Allie? I know, you keep saying that. I don't think I really understood the full capacity of that statement before, but it's starting to gain some weight with me. I understand what you need. It's not in my nature to be nice to people, but I'm starting to catch that momentum. You need a real genuine, sincere, nice, nice-- - you think you can do that? - I think I can. - How do I know I can believe you? - Hey look, if I slighted her in any other way, I'm not aware of it. I mean, it's just, it's part of my nature. - [Michelle] All right, that's enough. I'll give you one chance. - All right. - [Allie] What did he say? - He said he wants to see you. - [Allie] For what? - I don't know, why don't you go find out? Go on. Go see what he wants. - [Allie] Is he gonna be nice? - I don't know, I have a feeling. (Allie giggles) - Allie, hey. Oh, come in, come on in, please. Oh thanks. (sighs) - Michelle said you wanted to speak to me? - [Rodney] And she's absolutely right, I did. How are you? - I'm okay, how are you? - I'm okay, I'm (sighs) I just want to tell ya, I'm really sorry we got off to a bad start. I just uh, I don't know, it just sort of took my by surprise and I realize you're-- - That's okay. - Is it okay? - I understand. - You do? - Uh huh. - Wow. You're so understanding. I really like that about you. (sighs) I just uh, I just uh, I don't know, I'm sorry. I'm just really sorry. - You're really sweet. - I'm sweet? - [Allie] You're sweet. - I don't think anybody's ever called me sweet my whole life. I think, I think you bring that out in me. (Rodney grunts) (Rodney sighs) - Oh. - Wow, wow. You okay? You all right? You okay, hey, you know what, uh, don't panic, here, come back. You know what I could really use? - What? - [Rodney] I could use a hug right now. (Rodney grunts) Thanks. You know what, I would really love to put my arms around you right now. - [Allie] You would? - Yeah. That'd make me so happy. - Michelle? He kissed me. - He did? - He kissed me. - Great. - He gave me a kiss. - That's excellent. (woman giggling) - Now he wants to hug me. - He does? - Yeah. I just have to untie his hands. - Ow, what are you doing? What the hell's gotten into you? - [Michelle] Shut up! - What the hell, what's wrong with you? - [Michelle] We are not stupid, Rodney! - I didn't say you were stupid. Great ass though. Oh, I was just kidding. (screams in pain) (birds chirping) - Hi hon, you having fun? - What did you say to Rodney? - (sighs) I didn't say anything to Rodney. You know, I was thinking though, you can do a lot better than Rodney, Allie. - No I can't, Michelle. - Yes, you can. - I'm not leaving Rodney, Michelle. - Allie, God. (sighs) How do I explain this to you? - I understand him. - We'll never see each other again-- - I don't wanna talk about it anymore. - Allie-- - I'm not leaving Rodney! - Allie! - I'm not leaving Rodney-- - Allie! - I don't wanna talk about it! (Michelle sighs) - Fine then we'll be in jail, we'll never see each other again, you'll never get your manicuring license and that's it, that's the end of our life. - Would you leave me alone? (Michelle exhales) I'd like to be alone right now. (thumps ball) (water splashes) (birds chirping) (jazzy music) ♪ Oh I love the way you move sometimes ♪ ♪ I get back this feeling boy and hold on ♪ ♪ Baby you knew what to do ♪ ♪ I just wanna say thank you for doing it to me ♪ ♪ Oh baby, hey yeah ♪ ♪ Can we do that again ♪ ♪ Uh huh ♪ ♪ Baby, yeah ♪ ♪ 'Cause it feels so good, so right, uh huh ♪ ♪ Oh, I like when you do me like that, uh huh ♪ ♪ Oh yeah ♪ ♪ Oh wow ♪ ♪ Oh baby, yeah ♪ ♪ When you do me like that, uh huh ♪ ♪ Oh yeah ♪ ♪ Just a little to the right ♪ ♪ I could go on like a star all night ♪ ♪ It's not what you got, but how you use it baby ♪ ♪ And you can use it on me, oh ♪ ♪ Baby, hey ♪ ♪ Can we do that again, oh ♪ - You're not speaking to me? (Michelle laughs) - You gotta understand, Michelle, there are some things between two people that you don't understand. Don't do that, don't treat me like I'm stupid. - Fine, marry him, whatever. Have kids together. - I will. - Good. I began to realize we had a problem. Rodney being nice to Allie wasn't gonna be enough for her. She had tasted love and she wanted more. I'd been trying to make her feel good about herself, but I realize now that there was the potential for a serious fall. (gentle strumming music) - Good morning, Rodney. - [Rodney] Good morning, Allie. - Are you comfortable? - (sighs) Comfortable, I've never felt so comfortable in all my life. I've never felt so well looked after my whole life. I never had anybody cook for me and clean me and comb my hair, not even my own mother. - Do you really mean that, Rodney? - [Rodney] I really do, Allie. I mean I've spent years in therapy. I was on Ritalin as a kid. I mean, I, at 16, they put me on Prozac and I've taken pills and booze and cigarettes and these five days, I think you've even helped me quit smoking. I really wanna thank you. (Rodney grunts) Wow. - [Allie] Rodney, what would you do if I untied you? - (laughs) I uh, I might ask you, I might ask you not to. - Why? - I don't know, I just feel so, I feel so connected with you. Have you ever made love to a man before? Never? You've never gone all the way? - Have you ever made love to a developmentally challenged girl before? - No, I never have. - This is great. This is both gonna be our first time. (scissors clipping) - [Richards] Simon, we've been driving around for like two hours here. There's no sidewalks in this place. - [Burke] Hey, nobody walks around here. (Richards sighs) - [Richards] I wanna walk right now to a restaurant, that's where I wanna walk. - All right, all right-- - We're going to the game, I wanna see the Dodgers and that's it. This is ruining my whole day. There's nothing up here. My stomach's growling. Can you hear it? - [Burke] (laughs) No, I didn't hear it, Frank. Lot of stuff going on around here it looks like. - Well God, what's going on? Eh, (sighs) all right, that's it, there's nothing. - [Burke] See that, what is that? - [Richards] What? - [Burke] 7206, what's the book on 7206? - [Richards] Oh, that's Alexander, that's the one that we talked today. - Okay, I don't-- - Beauty parlor, what's her name? - [Burke] I think we should take a look at that. - [Richards] Oh come on, will ya? This is, you're grasping at straws here, you know what I mean? - Well, I mean, we're here and-- - I mean, the thing on the ground (muttering) - Well see and we'll just take a quick look-- - [Richards] All right, this, I'm staying in the car. You go in-- - All right, stay in the car. I'll be right back. (keys clink) (zipper buzzes) - [Michelle] I was faced with a dilemma. I knew that Rodney didn't care about Allie, but I also knew how stubborn Allie could be. As I got ready to load the car, I racked my brain for ways to get Allie out of there, but as things turned out, I never got the chance. (doorbell rings) (door squeaks) (Michelle laughs) - Hi, Michelle. - [Michelle] Hi, yeah. - Yeah, we met at the, the other day. - Parking ticket. - Right, right. - Hi. - You live here? - Uh no, I'm house sitting, yeah. What are you doing here? - Well we were, I was driving by and I noticed that your gate was open. - [Rodney] I want you to go to the bathroom and put on your best perfume. - Perfume? Here's the scissors. - Oh. - You do the rest. - [Rodney] Okay, all right. (grunts) Oh. - [Allie] I'll be in the bathroom. - Okay. - [Allie] I'll be right back. - All right, you go freshen up. Okay. (gasping) Oh. Thank you. (exhales) (gasping) (grunting) (body thumps loudly) - [Burke] No, it's just precaution. I don't mean to scare you. - Oh good. Um well, I was getting ready to go out, but thanks for coming by. - Oh sure. Okay. It's good seeing you. - You too. (Michelle exhales) (knocking) Hello again. Twice in one day, huh? - I don't wanna be too forward, but would you like to have dinner with me? - Um, (laughs) how about if I call you, yeah? - Yeah um, yeah, call me at the police station. - Okay I will. - And that way, you can call me if anything's going on or if you just wanna talk or, or we can get together. - Okay. - Okay. I don't have a card. Um, (laughing) do you have a pen? I don't have a pen. - Um, sure, hold on just don't go anywhere. I'll be right back, okay? (Richards sighs) (water hissing) (Allie spits) (sassy jazzy music) (Rodney breathing hard) - Hey, Michelle? - [Rodney] Who the fuck are you? - I'm Detective Burke, hold on, Michelle? - Sh sh, just hold your voice down, man, hold your voice down, all right, listen to me. I'm Rodney Alexander, okay? This is my house. I've been tied up, I've been held as a hostage here for five days, tied to a chair with duct tape-- - Are you hurt? - [Rodney] Am I hurt? Do I look like I'm all right? - All right, sh sh sh. Michelle! Michelle. - Sh, sh, would you just be quiet for a second, all right? There's one of 'em still in the bedroom. - Excuse me sir, relax-- - Oh my God. - [Michelle] He needs to get back to bed. (talking over each other) - Wait, this man is obviously hurt. Hold on one second and I'd like to know what's going on, please. - Okay, this man-- - Oh yeah, I'd like to hear, what is going on? - Drug situation and he's in a detox program right now that we are trying to help him-- (Rodney applauding) - In spite of that. - [Rodney] Beautiful, that was great, that's her turn, okay? My turn, thank you. I'm Rodney Alexander. I live here. This is my house, I live here. My mother lives here. Camille Alexander-- - Hold on one second, do you have any I.D.? - Do I look like I have I.D.? I'm wearing pajamas. I can't even move. Do you see that fire mantle? That's got all of my pictures ever since I've been a baby, isn't it? Do I look familiar, look. And that's my mother. - All right, so he lives here. - Rodney. - The man is obviously, as you can see, a little-- - Okay, in spite of that, it's obvious that he's not in good shape and I think we should call the hospital and take care of him. - [Rodney] Is it my turn? Is it my turn, Detective Simon? - Allie, Allie-- - Is it my turn? - You have no clothes on-- (everyone talking over each other) - Rodney and I are boyfriend and girlfriend. He kissed me, he wanted to be with me, make love to me and what happened was that um, everything got very confused. It was a mixed up thing, but he's my boyfriend and he kissed me and we were gonna make love. - If he was your boyfriend, why'd you tie him up? - [Burke] Well he claims that Michelle beat him and then you attacked him sexually. - He's nervous. - [Richards] He said you girls kidnapped him. - It's not like that. - When we walked in, he was crawling away from you. That doesn't sound like you're in love. - That's because you both came. (Richards sighs) - [Burke] I wanna know what brought you here, I wanna know why this happened. - It doesn't matter, Simon. - [Burke] It does matter. - Why? - [Burke] Because that's the difference between you spending a long time in a prison or not. - But I don't care. - [Burke] How can you not care? - I just don't care. - I mean you have people saying terrible things-- - [Michelle] It's a personal feeling of yours, Simon, it doesn't have anything to do with-- - No, it's not a personal feeling, it's a matter of, I'm frustrated that you won't help yourself. I'm frustrated that you're allowing yourself to go to prison, that you would, I mean, you're not defending yourself. You're not helping me at all. - Simon, I don't care. I'm going to jail, I'm guilty, that's it. - All right. - Okay. (upbeat music) (door squeaks) (quiet chattering) - Rodney! - Hey! - Rodney-- - Hey, fuck you, get away from me, just back off, all right? All right, give her some Prozac or something. What's the matter with you, you're my attorney, you're supposed to protect me. - Rodney? - The woman's five feet tall, can't you keep her off me? - Rodney, will you come visit, I'll be waiting for you! - [Rodney] Sure will. - I'll be waiting! - I've known Mrs. Alexander for about 13 years. I knew her son from the time he was a little boy, she used to bring him in when, you know, he was, I think about, I don't know, maybe 15, 16 years old and he was a good looking boy, but he's you know, he was damaged in the shop. - The house is okay. I mean, it needs some repairs and I don't know, I'm just not, I'm very nervous to tell you the truth. I just wanna move. I wanna go somewhere, I don't know where I wanna go, maybe to an island. Maybe I'll go back to Las Brisas. (laughs) - Well-- - Well. (laughs) Should we tell 'em? (laughing) - Oh. - Well, we are really compatible. - We are. - And um-- - You know, I introduced them, but I knew, I knew, if I hadn't been involved at the time, it would have been us, it would have been us. - We share so many things in common. We love to do a lot of things together. We love to do a lot of the same things too. For example, this tomato here, we grew this in our garden. - Yeah. - We both like organic gardening and uh, and for me to find out that she liked to grow tomatoes too was an extraordinary-- - cucumbers. You should see our refrigerator, just full of these cucumbers, like-- - If you want a salad or anything, we can make one up for you. (laughing) - I can tell that you are calm because you're not a biter. I can tell that you're neat because your cuticle is nice and round. I can tell that you are soft because you let your skin be smooth and I can tell when I do the wrist rotation if you're relaxed or not. - [Michelle] So you see, everything worked out just fine. Allie got her manicuring salon and I'm just happy hanging out and taking her bookings. We got quite a business going here. Allie still writes to Rodney, but he never writes back. Surprise. Who needs them? Men are nothing but trouble. From now on, it's just Allie and me. (cheerful music) (cheerful energetic music)