Transcript for King of the Rocket Men (1949) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (dramatic orchestral music) (whooshing) (booming explosion) (upset orchestral music) (booming explosion) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) - [Voiceover] Don't look surprised that's your your car Professor Drake. It's been somewhat altered for a purpose. That won't help. Each door's automatically locked. Relax professor. I'll do the driving. Your car is under my direct control. You can't see me, but I can see you from my remote point. (tense orchestral music) (squealing tires) (crashing) (laughing) (orchestral music) Wait, Professor Millard, you've been working too hard. Life isn't worth it, your life. Remember poor Professor Drake and Kenyon and Bennett? The papers said their deaths were accidental, but you didn't believe that, did you? You've begun to suspect more than is good for you or for me. Now, we shall see what the papers say about your death. (sizzling) - Nothing could be salvaged. Science Associates has had to start again from scratch. As you can see, Miss. Thomas, we've set up a temporary laboratory here in the conference room. - But, what could've caused the disaster. - An unavoidable accident. Unfortunately, no trace was found of Professor Millard who was working in the building on a supersonic experimental test at the time. That is about all we can tell you. - Can, or dare? - I've given you facts. - You also gave me the facts on Professor Drake's death. As publicity director for Science Associates, you've done a good press job, Mr. Winslow, but aren't these accidents occurring rather frequently? - This is a scientific experimental project. There's always an element of danger. - As well as sabotage. - Now, you're being melodramatic. - No, realistic. - If any outside source is suspected of being behind these misfortunes, Science Data magazine would appreciate having that information. - Spoken like a true reporter, Miss Thomas. But, Science Associates is a too isolated an unpublicized project to attract sabotage. - And, Jeff King oughta know as our rocket propulsion expert, he'd be among the first to come in contact with any outside interference. - Well perhaps, some of your other members could give me additional information? - Information is something we discuss in private sessions, Miss Thomas. However, I can supply names of those comprising our group. That's Professor Bryant formerly head of Technical Research University, specializes in metallurgy. Martin Conway, atomic expert and senior member of Science Associates. Dr. Graftner, aerodynamic wizard, and Gunther von Strum, authority on nuclear fission. - That's quite a collection of brains. - And now-- - Thank you for the interview, goodbye gentlemen. - Goodbye, Miss Thomas. - I'll see you soon? - As soon as there are any new developments. - Thanks again, Mr. Winslow. - Goodbye Miss Thomas. (dramatic orchestral music) (clacking) - The meeting is called to order, gentlemen. As you know, we must select someone to continue the late Professor Millard's experiments. - Why? In my opinion, Millard had become a visionary with fantastic ideas, mad dreams of developing flying suits to change man into human rockets. - A victim of overwork. - Yes, it must've unbalanced him. His weird experiments cost him his life and us our laboratory. - Now, not so fast, gentlemen. There is a possibility that Professor Millard knew something about Drake's death, but he wasn't satisfied with the theory of accident and neither am I. - I agree. The day before that lab explosion Professor Millard hinted that he was close to naming someone who calls himself Dr. Vulcan. Millard believed this person was guilty of stealing secrets from Science Associates and was responsible for Drake's death. - Are you suggesting that one of us is a murderer? - I'm merely repeating Professor Millard's words. - You seem to be better informed than the rest of us, Jeff. Suppose you investigate the matter for us in a special capacity in order to protect our persons and our interests. Agreed gentlemen? - Yes. - The new controlled rocket we'll soon be testing. As part of our interest, safe guarding that can be Jeff's first job. - Alright gentlemen, I accept. I'll arrange for the secret transportation of the guided missile to the testing grounds. - Well, if there's nothing more at the moment, I move that this session adjourn. - Second. (clacking) - Meeting adjourned. - This waiting around gets me jumpy. I'm going out and get some fresh air. - You'll stay put until we get our orders! - Acting a little scared of somebody we've never seen, aren't you Dirkin? - I'm not scared. I just aim to please. - Yeah, aiming to please a voice, a voice behind a door over a radio, or on the telephone. I like to see who I'm dealing with. - Maybe I have seen him. Right now, the important thing is to grab that pot of gold at the end of this rainbow. - Wonder what Dr. Vulcan's angle really is. - Those scientists out in the desert are working on newfangled flying missiles and trick jet planes. Certain foreign governments might pay plenty for that kind of stuff. - If Dr. Vulcan can get his hands on it. - Maybe that's why he's got us working for him. (telephone ringing) - Dirkin speaking. - [Voiceover] I have a job for you. Do you know, Professor Jeffrey King when you see him? - Sure, what about him? - He has convinced Science Associates that Millard and Drake at least did not die because of accidents. - You think he knows anything, or just guessing? - [Voiceover] That's what I must find out. If he has any evidence against us, it's probably hidden in the conference room. Tonight, I want you to go there and search. (ominous orchestral music) (shuffling) - Find anything? - Sure, a mess of books and a lot of scientific hoopla. Nothing we can use. - We ain't finished yet. - We'd better be in case King shows up. - Why worry about him? Those professor types are all brains and no brawn. (dramatic orchestral music) - What are you doing here? - Just browsing. - Whatever you're browsing for you apparently didn't find. Who sent you here? - That's our business. - Well, I'm making it my business. (smacking) (scuffling) (smacking) (smacking) (clattering) (dramatic orchestral music) (smacking) - Professor Millard? - Here I am, Jeff. - What's the idea? - Well, I heard someone coming, and I can't risk being discovered by uninvited guests. - Oh, I see. By the way, I found a couple of uninvited guests last night in the conference room. - Oh? Who were they? - I don't know. But, I think they were two of Vulcan's little helpers. From now on, that project will be guarded. - So, you've been singled out as Vulcan's next victim. - Not necessarily. Vulcan may have believed we had some evidence against him and sent the men to look for it. - I hope you're right. Jeff, I'm not gonna stay here any longer. I'm sure I can unmask Dr. Vulcan. If I go back to-- - Now, wait a minute, Professor. We've been all over that before. Vulcan nearly succeeded in killing you in that laboratory explosion, remember? - Of course, it was only your quick thinking that saved me. - Well, next time, we may not be so lucky. If you want to live, Professor, for the time being you'll have to remain dead. (laughing) - You're right, but there's so much work to do. - Yes, and all the time, space, and equipment with which to do it. - Alright. That reminds me. I've completed the rocket suit. - Good! (laughing) - Well, what's so amusing? - I was thinking how astonished Professor Graftner will be when he sees this. You know, he was convinced you were insane to try to build an atomic powered rocket suit, and I guess he thought I was even crazier for helping you. - Well, here it is. I hope it works. - We'll soon know. I'll take it with me and test it for you. - Well, stay close to the ground for the first few flights. There still maybe a few adjustments to be made. - Right. By the way, the professors are likely to be the new rocket to the proving grounds for testing. - Oh, well be careful, Jeff. That's the kind of thing that Dr. Vulcan could sell to a foreign nation for a fortune. - Yes, if personal gain is the motive behind Vulcan. We're not sure of that. In any event, I've had the demonstration model loaded aboard an unmarked truck. It's being kept under armed guard in a small warehouse in town. I feel sure Dr. Vulcan has no idea where it is. - I hope you're right. - I'll let you know about the tests. (dramatic orchestral music) - How's everything? - It's fine. Truck's ready and waiting for you. - Good. (tense orchestral music) (smacking) - We'll take care of him. Get that truck. (smacking) (ominous orchestral music) (excited orchestral music) - This is Jeff's car. Something must be wrong. - Yes. (ominous orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) - What's that? (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) (whooshing) - What's that? (excited orchestral music) (whooshing) (smacking) - Hey, what's going on back there? (clattering) (smacking) (dramatic orchestral music) (clacking) (whistling) - [Rocket Man] If that torpedo lands in any populated area, you'll be guilty of mass murder. (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) (whistling) (excited orchestral music) (whistling) (whooshing) (whistling) (crackling) (booming explosion) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (whooshing) (whistling) (whooshing) (whistling) (crackling) (booming explosion) (high pitched ringing) (dramatic orchestral music) - [Voiceover] Fortunately, the misguided interceptor torpedo was exploded presumably by the Rocket Man, popular name given the sensational phenomenon observed in the skies over this vicinity yesterday. The question arises is the strange human like object a visitor from another planet, or as seems more likely, does it represent an effort to overcome the evil that has been threatening Science Associates. (clicking) - If Dr. Vulcan should suspect that you're Rocket Man, your life would be in as much danger as mine was before you brought me here. - Well, let's hope I can get the jump on him. At least, we can now assume that Dr. Vulcan is a member of Science Associates. - Yes, it was only members of that group that knew about the secret rocket to arrange its theft. - And, Vulcan, whoever he is, will be most curious about the identity of Rocket Man. Well, I'll try to spot him when I go to the lab for the meeting today. - Be careful, Jeff. - I will. So long. - Goodbye. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Von Strum] Burt Winslow described the sound of flight as resembling that of Millard's experiments in sonic propulsion. - Yes, but no trace of Millard or his experiments were found after the explosion in the laboratory. - And, you King, were the only one of us who believe Professor Millard's theories of sonic propulsion practical. - Are you intimating that I might be the mysterious Rocket Man, gentlemen? - Not necessarily, but you worked with Millard-- - Yes Burt, what is it? - Glenda Thomas just called. She snapped a picture of the Rocket Man in flight and has developed a good negative. - Picture of the Rocket Man? - Does it show who it is? - No, the negative is too small for purposes of identification. Shall I give her permission to release it for publication? - No, it's too dangerous. - Dr. Graftner's right. As committee investigator, I should make a study of the negative. - By all means, it might contain a valuable clue to the secret of construction. - If the photograph is of any value to us, either for identification of the mysterious Rocket Man or the method of flight, I'll report on it. Haven't you anything to say, Professor Conway? - No. No, I'm in agreement. We'll adjourn until we can have your report. (clacking) - Where is the photograph, Burt? - Miss Thomas told me I could pick her up at the Press Club and see the negative in her apartment. - Good, I'll meet you there at two O'clock. - Right. (ominous orchestral music) (clicking) - [Voiceover] Dirkin, I think we may be able to stop Rocket Man from any further interference with our plans. There's a picture of him in flight. (ominous orchestral music) - Glenda Thomas, apartment 15, Piedmont Arms, right I'll find that negative before Jeff King gets there. (dramatic orchestral music) Someone's coming! Inside fast. - Come on in. Make yourself at home. - Thank you. - [Glenda] Actually, I doubt if the negative will be of any help to Science Associates. - Maybe you're right, but Jeff will know. He should be here any minute. (ominous orchestral music) - This is Dawson eight, three, four, six, nine. I don't think the telephone bell is working. Will you test it? I'll hang up. (telephone ringing) - Hello, yes operator, it's ringing now. - Hello? Yes, this is Glenda Thomas. - This is Jeff King. I've been unavoidably detained here at the laboratory. Is it possible for you to bring that negative down here? - Of course, see you in a little while. - Jeff King wants us to bring the film to the laboratory. - He's probably busy with an experiment. (phone ringing) - Hello? Yes operator, it's ringing now. - Hello? Yes, this is Glenda Thomas. - This is Jeff King. I've been unavoidably detained here at the laboratory. Is it possible for you to bring that negative down here? - Of course, see you in a little while. Jeff King wants us to bring the film to the laboratory. - He's probably busy with an experiment. - My boss would've paid me a pretty bonus for this little gem. - And, mine will, lady. Thanks for finding it for me. (bashing) (smacking) (clattering) (smacking) (clattering) (smacking) (smacking) (crashing) (grunting) (tense orchestral music) (smacking) (tense orchestral music) (tires squealing) (smacking) - Hey Jeff, a gunman got away with that film. Glenda's trailing him. They must've headed for the Ridge Road. (excited orchestral music) (squealing tires) (squealing tires) (dramatic orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) (squealing tires) (squealing tires) (whooshing) - Dirkin calling Dr. Vulcan. Dirkin calling Dr. Vulcan. (clicking) - Vulcan speaking. Did you get the film? - [Voiceover] Yes, shall I bring it to you now? - [Voiceover] Where are you? - On the ridge route approaching Cold Water Junction. - [Voiceover] Stand by, I'll see if you're in the clear. - Right. (ominous orchestral music) - [Voiceover] I think you're being trailed Dirkin. Look behind you. Recognize that car? (squealing tires) - It looks like a car that was parked in front of the dame's apartment house. - [Voiceover] Alright, I'll handle it by remote control. Come on in. - [Voiceover] Right, switching off. (tense orchestral music) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) - It's frozen. It won't turn. (squealing tires) (crashing) (booming explosion) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) - It's frozen! It won't turn. (squealing tires) - [Rocket Man] Jump! (squealing tires) (excited orchestral music) (booming explosion) (crackling flames) (grunting) - Thanks, Rocket Man. You know at first, I thought you were an invader from some other planet, but it's plain to see you're human, and you've made a great scientific discovery. I'd like to write an article about you for my magazine. - [Rocket Man] I'm sorry that's impossible. - But, I don't see why. If you're on the side of law and order, you shouldn't object to the public knowing about you. - [Rocket Man] My goal is to put an end to the activities of the mysterious person who is operating against the national safety, and you can help. - How? - [Rocket Man] By not publicizing the Rocket Man for the time being. There's too much at stake. The intercity bus runs along this route. There oughta be one along in a few minutes. It'll take you back to town. - Alright, thanks again, Rocket Man. (dramatic orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) - So even though Glenda tried to help, Vulcan's men got away with the negative of her snapshot. - Even if they enlarge the negative, they can't identify you as Rocket man. After all, your face is covered. - I know that, but the rocket suit will be identified as the one you were perfecting before the lab explosion. It's a matter of record that I was helping you. The natural assumption will be that either your still alive and the mysterious Rocket Man, or I am. In that case, I'd be forced to leave Science Associates and go into hiding just as you're doing. - Well, that hasn't hurt my work. It will be a pleasure to have you join me. - I'd like to do that, but we must remember that as long as I can maintain my position with the group, there's a chance of finding out who Dr. Vulcan is. - You're right. What good is any of our research as long as this sabotage continues, vital secrets our stolen, and the lives of our colleagues endangered. - Your identity as the Rocket Man must not be disclosed. - So, you can see how important it is to keep Vulcan's men from enlarging that negative. - Have you considered any possible ways you can do that? - Yes. The key lies in duplicating the negative on a fine grained film. And, for the type of enlargement they'll need, only micro 247 can be used. - I don't see how that helps you any. - Micro 247 is made only my Micro Photochemists. I'll get them to stop all sales. - Good, but isn't there a supply kept in Science Associate lab? And, if you suspect anyone-- - Yes, we use if from time to time in experiments. And, that's exactly my point. - Yeah, alright then thanks. No soap, Dirkin. I've tried every photo studio in town that could possibly hand that sort of film, and it's scarcer than bathing suits at the North Pole. - There's no other outfit besides Micro Chemists that makes it? - Well, not out here. I could get some back East though. - This can't wait! (clicking) And, as long as Micro Chemists won't sell, I figured the best thing is to break in there tonight. - [Voiceover] No, it might have been planned that way to draw us into a trap. - Then maybe you've got another answer? - [Voiceover] I think so. There's a small supply of the film at Science Associates. Be at the North gate at nine O'clock. - What about getting in? - [Voiceover] I said be there at nine! The gate will be open and from there on you will. (dramatic orchestral music) (tense orchestral music) - [Dirkin] Here it is. - Don't move. Well Dirkin, who paved the way for you to get in here? - I find my way around pretty well without anybody's help. - Oh, if that's how you feel, you'll find our way to police headquarters with my help. I'll take this first if you don't mind. (clicking) (gun firing) (smacking) (guns firing) (tense orchestral music) (guns firing) (tense orchestral music) (tires squealing) (tires squealing) (excited orchestral music) (gun firing) (tires squealing) (dramatic orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) - I've got that micro two, four, seven film. - Good, now we can go to work. What do you keep it so hot for in here? Let's open a window. - Cut it out. I gotta keep a high temperature control. - Oh, stop dramatizing. (whooshing) This gonna take long? - Oh about 10 minutes, I got everything set. - Good! (dramatic orchestral music) (whooshing) (thudding) (ominous orchestral music) I'm going outside to cool off. Call me when you're ready. - Alright, it'll only be a few minutes longer. (ominous orchestral music) - Okay King, how did you get here? - Haven't you heard, I'm Rocket Man. - Sure, and I'm the king of Siam, inside. (smacking) (excited orchestral music) (smacking) (clattering) (smashing) (shattering) (frenzied orchestral music) (smacking) (smacking) (crackling flames) (booming explosion) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (excited orchestral music) (smacking) (clattering) (crackling flames) (excited orchestral music) (booming explosion) (ominous orchestral music) - You know it's strange how Dirkin and his pal got in here. I checked the doors and the windows, and there's no signs of tampering. Somebody inside conveniently set the stage for them. They opened that door with a key. - If Professor Millard was alive, he'd have said that. He was sure that Dr. Vulcan is a member of Science Assocaites. - And now, I'm sure. Outside of ourselves, we have four likely candidates Professors Bryant, Conway, Graftner, or Von Strum. Determine who among them arranged for Dirkin's visit, and I think we'll have found Dr. Vulcan. - That's a large order, Jeff. - I wonder something happened here this evening that may tell us who Vulcan really is. As you know, I was sure Vulcan's men would try to get our supply of microfilm. When I knew they were inside, I slipped up on them. Don't move! Now, Dirkin who paved the way for you to get in here. - I find my way around pretty well without anybody's help. - Oh, if that's how you feel, you'll find your way into police headquarters with my help. I'll take this first if you don't mind. Dirkin had an inside confederate, a confederate who wore a distinctive signet ring. A ring I can't possibly fail to recognize if I ever see it again. - Well, your chance may come at tomorrow's general meeting. - It may at that. Let's go. (dramatic orchestral music) Hello Burt. - Good morning. (clacking) Gentlemen, Jeff King has a request to make. - Thank you. As you know, a theft occurred here last night which appears to have been an inside job. Just to dispel any possible doubts, I'm going to ask a favor. Will you all be kind enough to place your hands palms down on the table. - That's a strange request. - Well, I don't understand. - Obviously, we're under suspicion. - What're you trying to prove Jeff? - I'm only trying to clear up something that has been bothering me. I'm looking for a man who displayed an unusual trademark last night. He made the mistake of wearing an intricately designed ring that definitely incriminates him. And, you are that man Professor Conway. - I... there must be some mistake. - That's your ring, isn't it? - Well yes, but. - And, you wore is last night, when you conveniently turned the lights out in this room, didn't you? - Are you trying to insinuate that I-- - There's no use in denying it. I'd recognize that ring anyplace. - Perhaps, you'd recognize this? I was warned about you, King. You've got to blame somebody for what happened around here, but you're not gonna make me your scape goat. - Put that gun away. - Don't move, any of you! (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) (tires squealing) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) (whooshing) (ominous orchestral music) (phone ringing) - [Voiceover] Yes? - Conway speaking. I had to call you at that special number you gave me. You saw what happened at the conference meeting. - [Voiceover] Certainly. I warned you that Jeff King would try to implicate one of us. - But, he's making a terrible mistake. Maybe if I went to him and pleaded for it? - [Voiceover] You'd think he'd believe you? No Martin. Once King gets his clutches on you, you're finished. - Then you've got to make him understand. There must be something you can do. - [Voiceover] There is. Remember our pact to help each other if an emergency like this ever arose? - Yes. Yes, of course! - [Voiceover] Well, I haven't forgotten it either. I have a friend living in town at the Hotel Mesa. He'll hide you until this affair is settled. Go there at once. - Well, thanks. Thanks. (dramatic orchestral music) (knocking) I'm Professor Conway. - Won't you come in? - Thank you. (clicking) I was sent here by-- - Yes, I know. - I've been through a terrible ordeal. - So, I've heard. Won't you sit down? - Thank you. - Not there at the desk. (ominous orchestral music) - What's that for? - You're going to write a confession taking the wrap for everything that's happened at Science Associates. - I am? Well, there must be some mistake. I thought you were a friend that-- - Sure, that's why you're here. Now, get busy on that confession! - You must be mad. I can't do that. - Does this change your mind? Start writing. I'll tell you what to say. (ominous orchestral music) - Professor Conway simply can't be Dr. Vulcan. - He's got to be. And, once I get a police report on his whereabouts, I'll prove it. - Hey Jeff, the police just located Conway's car parked in an alley alongside the Hotel Mesa. - Maybe it was just abandoned there? - I don't think so a plainclothes man checked on every resident. A man answering Dirkin's description occupies a top floor room. - There's your proof. Dirkin and Vulcan go together like ham and eggs. This is a chance to nab both of them! - A story for me! Let's go! - Glenda, I've asked the police to keep hands off, so that Conway's suspicions won't be aroused. Now, I'm asking you. Stay here with Burt. - We understand. It is better that you do the job alone. - Thanks. (dramatic orchestral music) (whooshing) - I Martin Conway am also guilty of... (whooshing) (excited orchestral music) (gun firing) - Am I glad you're here. This man was trying to make me write a false confession implicating myself as Dr. Vulcan. - [Rocket Man] That ring you're wearing is confession enough. - How can I make you believe and understand me? This is a fraternity ring worn by the members of a secret scientific club. There are many of them in existence. - [Rocket Man] But, yours is the only one at Science Associates. - No, no, there's one other member of the associates wears an identical ring. - [Rocket Man] Who is that man? - [Martin] Why it's... (thunking) (ominous orchestral music) (bashing) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) - Am I glad you're here. This man was trying to make me write a false confession implicating myself as Dr. Vulcan. - [Rocket Man] That ring you're wearing is confession enough. - How can I make you believe and understand me? This is a fraternity ring worn by the members of a secret scientific club. There are many of them in existence. - [Rocket Man] But, yours is the only one at Science Associates. - No, no, there's one other member of the associates wears an identical ring. - [Rocket Man] Who is that man? - [Martin] Why it's... (ominous orchestral music) (bashing) (excited orchestral music) - I can't understand it. I never noticed Conway wearing the ring you say you saw in Vulcan's hand. - I don't think that was a coincidence. Vulcan planted it on Conway before our last conference. - Then Vulcan had to know that you'd be looking for that particular ring at the meeting where you planned to confront him. - Apparently. I only told Burt Winslow. - Winslow? - I've always considered Winslow above suspicion, professor, but Vulcan invariably seems to learn of my plans. I think I'll go back at the laboratory now and see if I can find out how he does it. - Well, good luck, Jeff. (orchestral music) - [Voiceover] A half finished confession of guilt for all the crimes against Science Associates was found in the dead man's room. police therefore are convinced that Professor Conway was a murderer and saboteur in the pay of an unfriendly power. - That doesn't make sense, Burt. Even an absent minded professor would finish his suicide note before killing himself. - You think someone else did it? - Yes, the real Dr. Vulcan. It just occurred to me that we've been overlooking the most logical suspect, Jeff King himself. - Jeff, don't be ridiculous. - But listen, he's the only one besides us who knew where Conway was hiding. And, it's obvious Conway's murder was designed to leave Vulcan free to make his next move unhampered by suspicion and vigilance. Jeff could've planted that ring on Conway before your meeting. - But, if that was Jeff's plan why would he let me in on it? - So, you'd back up his innocence just as you're doing now. (dramatic orchestral music) - If you want me to prove to you that Jeff King is not Dr. Vulcan, we'll go down to that lab right now and start an investigation. - Alright. (tense orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (clicking) - Hello seven? This is Jeff King. I've decided to accept your proposition. I just completed work on my ultrasonic firing tube, and I'm ready to sell it myself rather than give Vulcan the pleasure. Don't worry about Science Associates. I'll tell them the experiment was a failure. I'll bring it to the barn at the old Varich Ranch at four O'clock. (clicking) - [Voiceover] Hello Dirkin? You have a job to do at four O'clock this afternoon. (ominous orchestral music) - If Jeff isn't Dr. Vulcan himself, he's working for him. - It looks like that's all the proof we'll need. - All but nabbing him in that act of selling that firing tube. I'm gonna be waiting for them at the barn. - I want to go too. - Alright, but you can't go dressed like that. We'll drive over to the garage, and we'll try and pick up some rougher clothes. (ominous orchestral music) (sputtering) (tense orchestral music) - [Jeff] Dirkin! - That's right, surprised? - I'm not surprised at anything Dr. Vulcan does. - Okay, then hand over the firing tube. - [Burt] Not so fast, Jeff King. - Burt, let me explain to you. (tense orchestral music) Burt, wait a minute! Listen to me, listen to me! - I did you traitor. I heard you talking over the telephone in the conference room. - But, that was for the benefit of a hidden microphone. That package I gave Dirkin contains-- - I know what was in that package. (smacking) (excited orchestral music) (gun firing) (sputtering) - Stop it Burt, stop it! I hate to do this, pal. (tense orchestral music) (beeping) (beeping) Now, listen to me, Burt. Dirkin may be leading us to Vulcan's headquarters. There's a direction finder in that package he took with him. - What? - That's right. - But, Dirkin also took Glenda with him. - Glenda! - Yes, we thought there was a secret firing tube in that package. She was trying to get it away from Dirkin. I saw her get into the plane. - Dirkin calling Dr. Vulcan. Dirkin calling Dr. Vulcan. - [Voiceover] This is Dr. Vulcan. Come in, Dirkin. - I got that firing tube from Jeff King. - [Voiceover] Are you sure he didn't slip you a concealed direction finder? Signals are coming over my radio amplifier. - Standby, I'll check it. (dramatic orchestral music) You're right it was a plant. - [Voiceover] Throw it overboard and change your course in case you're being trailed. - Right. (ominous orchestral music) - What's the matter? - Either this detector's gone haywire, or Dirkin's discovered the direction finder and ditched it. - Then how are we gonna know where he's taking Glenda? - You'd better get to the nearest telephone and call the police aeronautics division. Tell them I'll contact their planes by radio if I can relocate Dirkin on this. - Right. - You're next, sister. (excited orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) (excited orchestral music) (whooshing) - Rocket Man! (excited orchestral music) (high pitched whining) (tense orchestral music) (whooshing) (shattering) (high pitched whining) (crashing) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (high pitched whining) (excited orchestral music) (shattering) (high pitched whining) - [Rocket Man] Quick jump! (high pitched whining) (whooshing) (crashing) (excited orchestral music) (whooshing) (dramatic orchestral music) - Am I glad you caught up with me again. - [Rocket Man] It's getting to be a habit that I'd like to break. - Well, I was only trying to help. - [Rocket Man] The best thing you can do is help yourself to a ride back to town. The highway's right over there. (dramatic orchestral music) (whooshing) - And, if Burt and Glenda hadn't interfered we might've known who Dr. Vulcan is by this time. - Jeff, do you really believe that Burt's interference was accidental? After all, as far as I recall, you haven't eliminated him as a suspect. - Burt's been in too many close scrapes with me. He's the last one I'd suspect, but until we know who Dr. Vulcan is, no one's beyond suspicion. - I agree with that. - How's the work coming? - I hope to have the sonic decimater completed before long. I'm getting anxious to see what the sun looks like again, or even the moon. - I can understand how you feel. But, with Vulcan still at large, you must remain here in order to safeguard secrets such as these. - You're absolutely right, Jeff. I must remember the importance of our work. - Thank you, professor. Well, I'll see you shortly, and I hope with better news about our enemy, Dr. Vulcan. (ominous orchestral music) - [Voiceover] Dirkin calling Dr. Vulcan. - [Voiceover] Go ahead Dirkin. - I just got back here, but I'd like to take care of that King character right now. - [Voiceover] That might be a wise move. But, what happened this afternoon, I believe that King and the Rocket Man are one and the same. - [Voiceover] Then we can kill two birds with one stone. - [Voiceover] We might even make it three. - How do you figure that? - [Voiceover] If we put King in a spot where there's trouble, and Rocket Man doesn't show up, then we know that King is the Rocket Man. - Yeah sure, but what's the other gimmick? - [Voiceover] There's a new device just completed by Eastern Electronics which will have to be transported to the lab. At the conference tomorrow, I'll see to it that King is the one. - The hidden microphone must've been put there by a confederate, someone who had free access to these rooms. - Well, in any event, you've put him out of business by cutting his line of communication. - I believe Vulcan has too many sources of information to be stopped that easily. Now, our only protection against him still lies in the maintenance of stricter security. - Well, in that case, we have an immediate problem to discuss. - Go right ahead, professor. - Well gentlemen, as you all know, I've just completed assembling the sonitron at Eastern Electronics. It should be brought here immediately for testing. - Well, that's no great problem. - You forget the tremendous value of the sonitron to any foreign power. - Well, why not leave it to King? Ever since we've appointed him our director of security, he's been quite successful in warding off this unseen enemy. - Well gentlemen, the choice is yours. - Well, I say King. - Agreed. - Thank you. I'll begin making my arrangements immediately. Burt, I want you to go along. - [Burt] Good, what are the arrangements - Well, I'm not sure yet. But, suppose you meet me outside my apartment at four O'clock. - [Burt] Sure thing. (dramatic orchestral music) - Okay, keep your hands down and your trap shut. Get in your car. (smacking) (excited orchestral music) (smacking) (thwacking) (clattering) (smacking) (thwacking) (smacking) (tense orchestral music) (tires squealing) (tires squealing) (train horn blowing) (tense orchestral music) (tires squealing) (train horn blowing) (tires squealing) - How 'bout a cigarette, Dirkin? - Okay. - Could use a light. What bright idea's Dr. Vulcan dreamed up this time? - It's bright alright. Three birds with one stone. - [Jeff] I don't get it. - [Dirkin] You will, in fact, King you're going to work this one out for Dr. Vulcan. - Over my dead body. - That's up to you hero. And, when we get to Eastern Electronics, I'm going to be your driver on the truck that moves the sonitron, got it? Better play along, because I got a hunch that Rocket Man ain't gonna show up to help you out of this one. (clicking) (dramatic orchestral music) Gates, stay out here just in case. - What can I do for you? - I'm Jeff King of Science Associates. - Can I see your credentials? - Yeah, sure. - What about him? - Why, he's my driver. - Okay, it's all set to roll. I'll get a receipt for you to sign. - Thanks. (whooshing) (dramatic orchestral music) (whooshing) - Hey Dirkin! It's Rocket Man, he's headed this way! (smacking) (excited orchestral music) - They were gonna hijack the truck. Let me have this, and you call the police. (guns firing) (excited orchestral music) (guns firing) (whooshing) (excited orchestral music) - Rocket Man! (guns firing) (excited orchestral music) (crashing) (splashing) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (whooshing) (guns firing) (excited orchestral music) (whooshing) (guns firing) - Rocket Man! (gun fires) (tense orchestral music) (crashing) (splashing) - Thanks professor. I'm afraid we've lost the sonitron, but at least Vulcan didn't get it. - Well, we can build another. I guess Dirkin is still puzzling out who Rocket Man can be. - We're dealing with a more cunning brain than Dirkin, Professor Millard. - It's that cunning brain that's forcing me to hide out in this cave. - If we could only find some weak spot in Dr. Vulcan's armor, some effective way of blocking his schemes and drawing him out into the open. - What if we publicly announced having created the decimater? You know, using it as bait for a trap. - That might work. Vulcan would be bound to try to get it. But, we'll have to wait til the machine's finished. - It is finished. - You mean the decimater actually operates without an X-20 relay tube? - On a small scale. First, I thought the thromium waves would escape through the condenser. Actually, I discovered they could be transmitted at reduced strength through a coil resistor. - With what results? - Watch this. (dramatic orchestral music) Know what this is? - Why I'd say it's manganese steal. - Right. One of the strongest metals known. Now, just wait a minute. (dramatic orchestral music) (electronic buzzing) Watch that steal bar. (eerie ringing) That sound is the high frequency thromium waves radiating through the coil resistor. (eerie ringing) (dramatic orchestral music) - Well, here's what's happened to your manganese steal, Jeff, surprising isn't it? - It's not only surprising professor, but in the hands of the wrong people, it could be terrifying. Now, I have a little surprise for you. I've completed work on the X-22. - Jeff, do you realize what this means? We'll possess the most potent weapon of its kind in existence. Can you bring me the tube tomorrow morning? - Well, I don't know about tomorrow. Vulcan must've figured out that I'm no Rocket Man. Every move I make may be watched. It might not be wise for me to come here again for a few days. - It's bad enough being cooped up here, but to have to stay underground like a mole unable to work, Jeff I-- - I understand professor. Well, I guess the time has come to take Burt and Glenda into our confidence. (dramatic orchestral music) Jeff King to Millard, come in Professor Millard. - This is Millard. - [Jeff] I'm being followed just as we figured might happen. I'm leading whoever it is out into the back country on a nice long, wild goose chase. - What about Burt and Glenda? - They're on their way to the cave in Burt's car. They have the relay tube with them. I gave full instructions for finding you. - Splendid! I'll install the X-22 in the decimater as soon as they arrive. - Right, see you later. - [Voiceover] Hello Dirkin, hello Dirkin? - Dirkin speaking. - [Voiceover] Jeff King's playing decoy. I just listened in on a radio communication between him and the late Professor Millard. - Millard, but he's dead! - [Voiceover] He's very much alive. What's more important he may be Rocket Man. - Sure, sure he is! Where's he hiding? - [Voiceover] In a cave. Now, listen carefully. He's perfected a weapon he once discussed at Science Associates. It's known as a decimater. - What do you want us to do? - [Voiceover] Bring Millard and the decimater to me. My directional locator indicates that the cave is in the neighborhood of Hermit Mountain. - We'll find him. Swing around. (ominous orchestral music) (tires squealing) - Get out. (smacking) - Alright, King. Hold him here. I'll pick up a couple of the boys and head for Millard's cave. (dramatic orchestral music) - I can hardly realize you're actually alive, Professor Millard. - I have our friend Jeff King to thank for that. Ah, the X-22. Now, we can really put the decimater to a test. (ominous orchestral music) - Might be a long wait, pal. Better take the load off your feet. - [Jeff] Yeah, think I will. (smacking) - There with the addition of the X-22, I believe this is one of the most deadly machines ever devised. - Calling Professor Millard, come in Millard. Calling Professor Millard, this is Jeff King. - I'll get it. - Don't bother, I'll get it. - [Jeff] Do you hear me Professor? What's wrong? - King's broken free, we've gotta work fast. Tie up those two. - Sit down. - Over here. (dramatic orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) You're coming with us to visit Dr. Vulcan. (whooshing) (dramatic orchestral music) (smacking) (thunking) (smacking) (eerie ringing) - The mountain's melting. Through there, there must be an air shaft. (eerie ringing) - It's jammed. Save Burt and Glenda. They're tied up in the cave. (tense orchestral music) - Rocket Man, where's Professor Millard? - [Rocket Man] He's alright, but the tunnel's filling with lava. - Hurry Rocket Man. (tense orchestral music) (splashing) - [Rocket Man] We're trapped. Let's try this tunnel. (spalshing) (tense orchestral music) (screaming) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (eerie ringing) (splashing) - [Rocket Man] Let's try this tunnel. (splashing) - [Rocket Man] Look through this air shaft quickly. It'll lead us outside. (tense orchestral music) - [Professor Strum] Alright King, now you admit helping Millard create the illusion that he was killed by the explosion in his laboratory several months ago. - Yes, Millard knew it was Vulcan who tried to kill him, so he decided to finish his greatest experiment underground, free from Vulcan's interference. And, he did perfect the most devastating weapon known to man. - But, what good will that do man? The decimater was destroyed. - That's true, but I worked with Millard on the decimater, and I may be able to reconstruct it with the help of our research notes. - Well, if I can be of any help, it'll be an honor to help you. - Splendid! - Thank you, gentlemen. For the moment, I'd rather work alone. If any help is needed, I'll call on you. (dramatic orchestral music) - You're not gonna leave these things in here overnight are you? - [Jeff] They'll be as safe here as any other place, Burt. This is one of the most heavily guarded buildings in the entire Southwest. (dramatic orchestral music) - Left 38, twice right 13, right 31, twice left 19. Left 38, twice right 13, left 38, right 19. (orchestral music) RFD 48 Mink Shoals. - [Jeff] Over by the desk. - Von Strum, so you're Dr. Vulcan. - RFD 48 Mink Shoals. - Cut out the double talk. Why have you been murdering our best scientists and stealing their secrets to sell to foreigners. - RFD 48 Mink Shoals. - Quit stalling, von Strum. - Wait a minute, Burt. - I believe this man's under the influence of an hypnotic sedative. - Then maybe he isn't Dr. Vulcan. - I don't think so. But, let's hope he knows who Vulcan is. I'll mix an antidote. We'll find out how much he remembers. You better standby. - Right. (dramatic orchestral music) - Here, von Strum. - No, Vulcan! - Who is Vulcan, quickly von Strum? Who is Dr. Vulcan? - Vulcan, he is... What? Jeff, how did I get back here? - Back from where? - I don't know. I can't remember. We went to Gramercy's for lunch, all of us after the meeting. And, I don't understand. I was sitting there with a cup of tea and... - But, that was hours ago, can't you recall anything since? - Hours ago? - When you came in here, you were repeating the combination to the safe, but as you were leaving you kept saying RFD 48. What does that mean? - What does it mean? I don't know. - I think I do. Vulcan induced von Strum's hypnosis, gave him orders to steal Professor Millard's papers and deliver them to the address on Mink Shoals. - Do you know what that is? - Yes, a few miles South of here. And, I'll find out exactly where RFD 48 is in the morning when the post office opens. I'm going to deliver these papers to Vulcan. - But, what about von Strum? - I think Glenda will let us hide him in her apartment where he'll be safe from Vulcan, and where you can keep trying to revive his memory. - Good idea, come on professor. (dramatic orchestral music) - Walk up to the highway and look out for von Strum. I'll be inside. (dramatic orchestral music) - Professor von Strum? Hey, you ain't the professor. (smacking) (dramatic orchestral music) - Any sign of the professor? - Yes, von Strum's under guard. I'd hoped your boss himself would show up at that safe. - What are you talking about King? - Dr. Vulcan, I want him. - Look around, there's no Dr. Vulcan here. - You know where he is, and you're gonna take me to him. Stand up. (clattering) (smacking) (crashing) (smacking) (excited orchestral music) (smacking) - You win King. I'll take you to Vulcan. - Alright, outside, and take it easy. (gun fires) - Hey Turkey, keep him pinned down here. (guns firing) (dramatic orchestral music) (guns firing) (ominous orchestral music) Dirkin calling Dr. Vulcan. Dirkin Calling Dr. Vulcan. - [Voiceover] This is Dr. Vulcan. Come in, Dirkin. - Your plan backfired. Jeff King showed up instead of von Strum. He's holding von Strum some place. - [Voiceover] I know. I've just traced von Strum to the apartment of Glenda Thomas. We must get rid of him before he recalls what happened to him while he was with us. Two of my men are on their way now to prevent that. Do you know where Glenda Thomas lives? - Yes, I'll be there in 10 to take over, switching off. (dramatic orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) - Thank you. - Now, you remember the stranger leading you into the shack. Who was waiting inside? - I couldn't see. I remember there were voices, but I... It's no use Winslow. I'm tired. I just can't remember. (whooshing) - Try harder professor. Was Dirkin the stranger's name? - Dirkin, yes, I believe that was his name. - Don't move! (smacking) (thwacking) (smacking) (excited orchestral music) (whooshing) (smacking) (rattling) (smacking) You just prolonged the agony, sister. (whooshing) Rocket Man! (tense orchestral music) Here he comes, let him have it! (shattering) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (smacking) (rattling) (smacking) - You just prolonged the agony, sister. (whooshing) Rocket Man! (excited orchestral music) Here he comes, let him have it! (guns firing) (dramatic orchestral music) (gun fires) - He's dead. - [Rocket Man] I'm sorry. If I could only have gotten here sooner, I might have prevented this. - Therefore it is adjudged that death was a homocide committed by a person or persons unknown signed forthright, coroner's office. - Those unfortunately are the cold facts. Another victim added to Dr. Vulcan's list. - Another sacrifice King! If you had only enlisted our help, we wouldn't be faced with these cold facts. - I don't see where you or I could've been much help. But, no matter what dangers lie ahead, I'm still willing to trust to King's judgement. - Of course, I'm not blaming you, King, for these unfortunate occurrences. I just thought perhaps we might be of some assistance. - Let's leave it with the understanding then that I'll call upon you whenever I feel you can help. - Fair enough. Oh, by the way King, how are you getting on with rebuilding the decimater? - Well, it's a difficult task, doctor, but I hope to have some results soon. - Good, good. - I think he may be very surprised to find out how soon it'll be. By displacing the sonic vibrator, I've been able to reset the safety control. - Now, that's using the old head. It's also good to feel that the decimater is beyond the reach of Dr. Vulcan. - I wish that were true, but it isn't. Before I can start testing, I must work out a protective shield. - What for isn't this cave protection enough? - No, the fissionary material used is thromium. It kicks off ultra radionic waves that are detectable within a radius of 100 miles. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Dr. Vulcan] And, since I know Millard was using thromium in his experiments, I devised this radionic detector sensitive enough to pierce the most powerful shield. - I get the general idea. By using this gadget, I can locate the hiding place where King is working on the decimater. - [Dr. Vulcan] Precisely. Look here this dial will be your guide. Zero point indicating when you are in the area. - Looks like a cinch. - [Dr. Vulcan] Up to a point Dirkin. However, I'm sure King has protected his workshop with some warning device. - So, I just barge in and-- - [Dr. Vulcan] You'll use force only as a last resort. - Okay, what have you got in mind? - [Dr. Vulcan] Take a motorcycle with you on the truck. - Motorcycle? - [Dr. Vulcan] Yes, and after you located the hideout... (dramatic orchestral music) - Slow down a little. Hold it, down that side road to the left. (staticy clicking) Alright, pull up behind those trees. (dramatic orchestral music) That's the place we want. Pull up there and stop. (ominous orchestral music) Alright fellas get out the motorcycle. - Well, we're all set. (electronic beeping) Someone's at the entrance! (tense orchestral music) (engine revving) (guns firing) (excited orchestral music) (whistling) (ominous orchestral music) (excited orchestral music) (gun firing) (gun firing) (tires squealing) (ominous orchestral music) (splashing) - Well, that takes care of him. - I'd feel much better if we'd had a chance to talk to the guy first. - Yes, that would've helped, but the camera we conceal at the entrance might lead us somewhere. - By George, you're right. His photo might be an even better clue for us. - Let's get back and see what we got. - Right. The decimater it's gone! I don't get it. That guy on the motorcycle. - The oldest gag in the world. He was a decoy to get us away from here. - And, we really fell for it. - But, we better find out who are visitors were. - But, won't it take too long to get a print. - No, this camera takes a positive picture. We can get a photo without a negative in a couple of minutes. Bring me that test box, will you? (dramatic orchestral music) Look at this. - [Burt] What's so surprising about seeing Dirkin. - No, not him, the truck! It must still be in the vicinity, and the police blockage could trap it. (dramatic orchestral music) Emergency, calling highway patrol, emergency. - Highway patrol answering. - This is King of Science Associates. A valuable piece of equipment has been stolen in a truck license two, four, three, six eight. Looks to be about a three ton truck, steak body covered with a tarp. - [Voiceover] We'll spread a dragnet. (sirens blaring) (excited orchestral music) (tires squealing) - [Voiceover] And, from the police report I picked up, they got a full description of the truck. - I'll run through 'em. - [Voiceover] You'll do nothing of the kind. Head for Saddle Pass where Philips will meet you. - Yeah, right. Head for Saddle Pass. (excited orchestral music) - It's been half an hour. We should hear something pretty soon. - Or start building a counter weapon. - [Voiceover] Highway patrol calling King. - Come in. - [Voiceover] Our patrol has just located your truck moving along Abbey Road towards Saddle Pass. - Great, I'll take it from here. You stay here in case I need a contact. - What can you do alone? - I have a fair idea. (dramatic orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) - Here's the detonator. - Okay, help him move the decimater. - I'll set this up. - Okay. (ominous orchestral music) (whooshing) (excited orchestral music) Well, we're all set to go. - So will this be 10 seconds after the first guy to sets foot in here. From what Dr. Vulcan said, it'll be either Jeff King or Rocket Man. Get the car turned around. - Alright. (dramatic orchestral music) (whooshing) (clicking) (whooshing) (excited orchestral music) (smacking) (conking) (ominous orchestral music) (booming explosion) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (whooshing) (excited orchestral music) (smacking) (conking) (clicking) (tense orchestral music) - The truck's about to blow, let's get outta here! (clicking) (tense orchestral music) (booming explosion) (dramatic orchestral music) (whooshing) Let's get back to the car. (sad orchestral music) - Jeff! Oh, you, you're Rocket Man! - Yes. I guess this had to happen. - I should have guessed it before. But, why did you hide all this from me? - Professor Millard and I thought is wiser not to tell anyone. We felt the fewer people who knew, the better chance we'd have to unmask Dr. Vulcan. - Then that is Millard's invention? - Yes. Shortly after he established himself in that cave to escape Dr. Vulcan, I found out he perfected the flying suit and volunteered to test it somewhere. - Well, here it is. I hope it works. - We'll soon know. I'll take it with me and test it for you. - Well, stay close to the ground for the first few flights. There still may be a few adjustments to be made. - Right. By the way, the professors are likely to be to move the new rocket to the proving grounds for testing. - Oh, well be careful, Jeff. That's the kind of thing that Dr. Vulcan could sell to a foreign nation for a fortune. - Yes, if personal gain is the motive behind Vulcan, but we're not sure of that. In any event, I've had the demonstration model loaded aboard an unmarked truck. It's being kept under armed guard in a small warehouse in town. I feel sure Dr. Vulcan has no idea where it is. - I hope you're right. - I'll let you know about the tests. - That warehouse was where Glenda and I were to meet you. - Yes. I had everything set. And, then somehow Dr. Vulcan learned of my plans. (dramatic orchestral music) - How's everything? - Just fine, truck's ready and waiting for you. - Good. (clacking) (smacking) (dramatic orchestral music) - We'll take care of him. Get that truck! (smacking) (dramatic orchestral music) - I realized the rocket suit was an untried experiment, but with it, I stood an outside chance of overtaking that truck. - Glenda and I saw you flying away, but we had not idea who it was. - Then what happened, Jeff? - I actually spotted the truck from the air. (whooshing) (dramatic orchestral music) - What's that? (ominous orchestral music) (whooshing) (smacking) - Hey, what's going on back there. (crashing) (excited orchestral music) (scuffling) (smacking) (sizzling) (whistling) - [Rocket Man] If that torpedo lands in any populated area, you'll be guilty of mass murder. (high pitched ringing) (excited orchestral music) (whooshing) (whistling) (whooshing) (whistling) (whooshing) (whistling) (whistling) (whoosing) (whistling) (crackling) (booming explosion) (tense orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) My escape from the explosion concussion was pure luck. - I'll bet you got another scare when you learned Glenda had snapped your picture as Rocket Man. - I was even more afraid when Dr. Vulcan learned of it and sent Dirkin to her apartment. He stole a negative and escaped. But, Glenda went after him. - And, you went after her. - [Jeff] Yes as Rocket Man. (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) (tires squealing) (whooshing) - It's frozen. It won't turn! (tires squealing) - [Rocket Man] Jump! (tires squealing) (booming explosion) (crackling flames) - Dirkin escaped with that microfilm, but later, it was destroyed, so Vulcan never succeeded in using it. - It all adds up to the fact that someone who's been seated at our conference table is behind all this. - Leaving us, for the moment, with a choice of either Bryant or Graftner. - We'll nail one of them sooner or later. - It had better be sooner. With that decimater in Dr. Vulcan's hands, his power for evil is unlimited. - Couldn't we trace the machine through its thromium rays? - Not if Vulcan is smart enough to develop a device for screening the wave emanations. - Looks like we're licked. - It only looks like it. I'm conducting an investigation that should tell us very shortly which of the two men is Dr. Vulcan. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Dr. Vulcan] Jeff King knows I have the decimater, and he'll bend every effort to find it before I can cash in on its value. There's only one answer. Jeff King must die. - Yes, but how? We've already tried a dozen ways to kill him. - [Dr. Vulcan] There's one way we haven't tried. I'll arrange for King to be called into town. I want you to... (dramatic orchestral music) - Hello, Jeff. - Hello, Glenda. - Where you going? - Into town to meet Professor Moore. He phoned that he wanted to see me on a matter of vital importance. - You're not going to town with that? - [Jeff] No, I guess not. - Never mind, we'll run you into town in my car. - Oh, thanks anyway, but I'll take this cab. Taxi! Bye. Oasis Hotel. (ominous orchestral music) - [Voiceover] Don't waste your time, King. Those doors can be unlocked only from the outside. Like your late colleagues, you're finally being lured into a position from which there is no escape. I'm driving your cab by remote control watching you take your last ride. (hissing) (ominous orchestral music) (hissing) (tense orchestral music) Even Rocket Man cannot help you now. (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) - [Jeff] Oasis Hotel. (ominous orchestral music) - Come on. (tense orchestral music) - [Voiceover] Don't waste your time, King. Those door can be unlocked only from the outside. I'm driving your cab by remote control watching you take your last ride. (hissing) (tense orchestral music) - Drive alongside as close as you can. (tense orchestral music) (hissing) (tense orchestral music) (coughing) - [Glenda] We'd better get him to the hospital, quick! - No, that won't be necessary. I'll be alright in a minute. That's powerful stuff. - It's a lucky thing Glenda saw that driver scoot out while the cab was still underway. - Yes. - Or, the Vulcan would've added one more to his list of victims. Quite a contraption! Gas chamber on wheels. - Oh yes, our opposition no doubt is quite cunning. I have an idea this time he might have overplayed his hand. - How so? - Clues, Burt, Clues. - Are you sure that gas didn't affect you? - Not at all. I've got a hunch it may have a disastrous affect on Dr. Vulcan. - In what way? - Fortunately for us, Dr. Vulcan was very obvious. The first whiff I got of that gas I knew it was fuminol. - Fuminol? Why I thought that was used as a rocket fuel. - Yes, it is. But, in its vaporized form it's a deadly gas. - Well, where does that lead us? - Right back to the lab where we can find out from what manufacturer that chemical was ordered, and then we'll pay them a visit. - That guy has more lives than nine cats. - [Dr. Vulcan] Worse than that, he has the clue to my identity. - You mean just because he knows what kind of gas it was? - [Dr. Vulcan] I made the mistake of putting through a personal order for the chemical used in the cab. - Then you think he can trace that chemical to where it was manufactured? - [Dr. Vulcan] I have no doubt about it. And, even though it is on the other side of town, you may still get there ahead of him and destroy the purchase record of fuminol. - Don't worry, he won't get anything that'll hurt us. Where is the place? - [Dr. Vulcan] It's the Hunter Chemical Company at Eighth and Hill Streets. - Okay. - I've got it, Jeff. - That's it alright. Hunter Chemical Company, Eighth and Hill. And, if our luck carries, we'll know who Dr. Vulcan is very shortly. - Right. (dramatic orchestral music) - We won't be very long. - Alright. (dramatic orchestral music) (smacking) (crashing) (smacking) (clanging) (guns firing) (bullet zinging) (guns firing) (clicking) - No sense risking our necks to get to my car. We'll use that truck. You drive, and I'll cover you from the back. (gun firing) (excited orchestral music) (gun firing) (tense orchestral music) (smacking) (tense orchestral music) (gun firing) (gun firing) (gun firing) (clicking) (tense orchestral music) (gun firing) (flapping) (tires squealing) (splashing) (tense orchestral music) (phone clicking) Vulcan, Dirkin calling. - [Voiceover] Yes. - I got those invoices away from Jeff King and destroyed them. - [Voiceover] Excellent Dirkin, excellent. - [Dirkin] But, I was also forced to take that Winslow character along. - [Voiceover] Burt Winslow? - Yeah, shall I dump him. - [Voiceover] No, no. He can be of great use to us. - What for? - [Voiceover] Live bait for our friend King. We must get rid of him before we can use the decimater. - What makes you think he'll fall for the bait? - [Voiceover] Just bring Winslow here. I'll guarantee that King will come too. - Hello, Jeff. - Hello, Glenda. - Any news about Burt? - Not a word. - Don't you think we should notify the police? (phone ringing) - King speaking. - [Voiceover] This is Dr. Vulcan. - Vulcan! What is this a hoax? - [Voiceover] It concerns the welfare of your friend Winslow. I would like to arrange for his return to you. - I see. On what terms? - [Voiceover] We can discuss those if you come to 212 Beverley Street at four. Alone you understand if you value your friend's life. - But, how can I be sure Burt is still alive? - [Voiceover] You will see him in the window at five minutes to four. Remember come alone, you will be watched. (clacking) - Burt's life for whatever fantastic demand Vulcan can think up. - How can you trust him to stick to any deal? He'd just assume kill both of you. - I don't trust him. The only thing I can do is try to our smart him. - How? - By getting there ahead of the time set for the appointment. - Be careful. - I will. (dramatic orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) (ominous orchestral music) - Careful with that photocell. It's alive now. - I don't like being around this electrical stuff very much. - Neither will our visitor. Jeff King should get quite a shock when he walks through that door. (laughing) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) (sizzling) Guess it works. You can call Dr. Vulcan now. (ominous orchestral music) (whooshing) (tense orchestral music) - [Rocket Man] Go ahead, Dirkin, draw your gun. Now, throw it away. (clattering) Sit down. We'll wait for Dr. Vulcan. - Why wait? I'm right here. - [Rocket Man] Bryant! So, you're Dr. Vulcan? - Yes, Dr. Vulcan. A bizarre name, but it's what I stand for, power, the power of steal forged into what I believe is right. - [Rocket Man] Sure, the right of a criminal to steal. The right of a traitor to betray his country. The right of a warped mind that works toward the destruction of peace. - Now, you've had your say Mr. Rocket Man whoever you are, but they're the last words you will ever utter. You came here to save your friend Jeff King, but instead you will proceed him into eternity. Now, back up right through that door. Back up! (tense orchestral music) (sizzling) (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) - [Rocket Man] Bryant! So, you're Dr. Vulcan. - Yes, Dr. Vulcan. A bizarre name, but it's what I stand for, power, the power of steal forged into what I believe is right. - [Rocket Man] The right of a warped mind that works toward the destruction of peace. - Now, you've had your say Mr. Rocket Man whoever you are, but they're the last words you'll ever utter. You came here to save your friend Jeff King, but instead, you will proceed him into eternity. Now, back up right through that door. Back up! (tense orchestral music) (thunking) (sizzling) (gun fires) (sizzling) - [Rocket Man] I'll telephone a description of Bryant to the police and ask them to spread a dragnet. Meanwhile, we'd better search for Millard's decimater. - Bryant's already shipped it. I heard him discussing some fantastic extortion plot involving the city of New York. - [Rocket Man] That sounds like Vulcan alright. Burt, look around for some clue as to what his plans might be. - Right. (orchestral music) I'm afraid we're too late. Here's a receipt for a plane Dirkin rented this morning. (ominous orchestral music) - Alright, thank you, Captain. Two men answering the descriptions of Bryant and Dirkin took off in a small cabin plane almost an hour ago. - New York should be warned that Bryant may use the decimater in his extortion plot. - I can still beat Bryant there in an air liner. - Not without me. - Nor me, this could be the scoop of my career. - Let's go! (dramatic orchestral music) I have actually seen the sonic decimater begin to turn a mountain of stone into a sea of molten lava. - Well, there are many mountains of stone standing in New York city. And, on your recommendation, the finest police force in the land has been covering every point of entry for three hours even though I still believe it's a hoax. - Excuse me, sir. This just arrived by special delivery. - Perhaps, you weren't unduly alarmed. Listen to this. Yours is the wealthiest city in the world. I want that wealth. If you fail to meet my billion dollar ransom demand by Wednesday at 2pm, I will destroy New York City. Announce your decision by radio broadcast, and you will receive instructions for the delivery of the ransom. It's signed Dr. Vulcan. Well, the man's a maniac. - Yes, but a very dangerous maniac, sir. Perhaps, you should broadcast an offer to compromise. - Compromise! Place the greatest city in the world in the hands of one murdering blackmailer? Never. Telephone the police commissioner. Tell him to call out all reserves and volunteers. I want them to comb every neighborhood, every building, every room in this city. I want them to find this madman who calls himself Dr. Vulcan. (dramatic orchestral music) - Jeff King probably has every cop in the country looking for us by now. - They won't find us on Fisherman's island. - Just where is this Fisherman's Island. - Oh, about 300 miles off New York harbor. (ominous orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) - I still can't figure out how you're going to use the decimater. You say it only has a range of 200 miles. - [Bryant] Yes. - Well, New York is 300 miles away. - Come Dirkin, look at this chart. There on the ocean floor midway between here and New York harbor lies the great Amsterdam Fault. A volcanic fissure opening into the subterranean fires miles below the city of New York. Now, erosion has sealed up this vent, but the decimater when trained upon it will smash through and bring about the worst earthquake and tidal wave in the history of America. Unless my ransom demands are met by two O'clock today. - Nearly half the city covered and not a single lead to Dr. Vulcan or the decimater. - And, it's almost two O'clock. - My detector hasn't picked up any thromium impluses. If the decimater is beyond its range of 250 miles, I don't think Bryant can inflict any serious damage. - Well I certainly hope you're right. - It's two O'clock. Their time is up. (eerie ringing) (waves crashing) - Yes, what? The naval observatory! Standby for orders. The naval observatory is reporting sudden giant waves moving in on the harbor from approximately 300 miles Southeast of here. Why they've no warning whatsoever! Do you think Millard's decimater could cause a thing-- (rumbling) What was that? It felt like an Earth tremor. Let's have a look at the chart. (dramatic orchestral music) The Amsterdam Fault, that's between here and Fisherman's Island. And, I'll bet that's where Vulcan has the decimater. I advise you to order the evacuation of the city immediately. And, tell them to begin with the harbor district. - [Voiceover] All citizens attention. New York City must be evacuated at once. Proceed in an orderly manner toward the Westchester Hills. All members of the police and fire departments on leave or off duty will report immediately to their precinct and company commands. This is urgent. - What's the delay? Why don't they put me on the air? - They're trying to clear a channel for you. Some of the relays have been disrupted. - They've got to put me through. This appeal to Dr. Vulcan may be our last chance to save the city. - The rocket suit's downstairs in my car. I'm going to fly to Fisherman's Island. And if Bryant is there, I'll try a little personal persuasion. - It might work, Jeff. Nothing else will. (dramatic orchestral music) - Burt, you better stand watch here. - Right, Jeff. (dramatic orchestral music) (high pitched ringing) (whooshing) - Standby, you're on in 10 seconds. (crumbling) It's dead. - You can't even pay Vulcan to stop now. - There's only one hope. A squadron of bombers from the army airbase may be able to blast Fisherman's Island right off the map. (whooshing) (eerie ringing) (waves crashing) (dramatic orchestral music) (crumbling) (whooshing) (eerie ringing) (roaring water) (splashing) (crumbling) (eerie ringing) (crashing) (whooshing) (crumbling) (yelling) (crumbling) (whooshing) (shattering) (smacking) (crackling) (crashing) (thunking) (smacking) (thunking) (gun fires) (gun fires) (smacking) (clattering) (ominous orchestral music) (whistling) (banging) (booming explosions) - You know it's a good thing I had the foresight to send those bombers to destroy the decimater. - But, what about Rocket Man doesn't he deserve some credit? - What's that? - Oh, he was just wondering if Rocket Man would remain with us now that Professor Bryant has paid for his crimes? - Well, I certainly hope so, but what has that got to do with what I was talking about? - Nothing, nothing at all. - Well, then, as I was saying, this fine administration will see New York City rebuilt into the greatest, the most wonderful, the finest city the world has ever known. (satisfied orchestral music)