Transcript for Jujutsu Kaisen (2020–…): Season 2, Episode 14  - Fluctuations - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- Sister! Three, two, one. So narrow. I see. First, put the target in the coffin. Second, bury the target with a tombstone. COUNTDOWN IN THREE SECONDS Third, countdown in three seconds. GRAVE The guaranteed hit of this domain reaches here. Considering that it's a Disease Cursed Spirit, if I don't get out within three seconds, I will succumb to that disease and die. The problem is that tombstone. If I get hit two more times, I won't be able to maintain my agility. I wouldn't want to fight Geto in that state. Ui Ui, are you okay? Yes, Sister. It's reflexively targeting the person with the strongest cursed energy in the domain. Two crows have been involved in the domain. I'm right. If I want to outsmart the enemy, I can only let Ui Ui become the target, and buy time for me to move freely. But Ui Ui will die if hit by one tombstone attack. Ui Ui, would you die for me? Do I have the honor to die for you? As I released my cursed energy, Sister suppressed hers. I understand everything now, Sister. You think I had that kid here just to help me carry things? Sister said that she wants to risk my life. For me, it's a signal of permission to use cursed techniques. Ui Ui is used to deal with the domain. I don't like to owe others favors. So I leave this part to that kid. What do you think is the fastest way to improve sorcerers' abilities? The "Binding Vow", for which you'd risk your life. Am I right, Sister? Right, the essence of cursed technique of her Black Bird Manipulation, Bird Strike, is to force the crow to commit suicide, and lift the curse energy limit on weak animals at that price, and have them hit the enemy. The only human who can block Bird Strike is Satoru Gojo. Okay, everyone, we are at the main base. Are you willing to die for me? Among the recent sorcerers, you're quite skilled. (Episode 38: Sway) (JUJUTSU KAISEN Shibuya Incident) Satoru Gojo was sealed? This is simply incomprehensible. I think so too, but... Geto has his part in it, even if that one's a fake, they must be up to something. I'd like to enjoy the downfall of the Gojo Family though. Leave if you don't want to work seriously. Are you telling me to go back? You're the one who should go back, Maki. Isn't that right, Grade 1 sorcerer Nanami? Maki. You should do what Mr. Naobito said... I'm at least more useful than a drunkard. 10:20 P.M., INOKASHIRA LINE, SHIBUYA STATION, AVENUE EXIT Have you been drinking? No. Maybe I should've acted alone. Mr. Nanami. Hmm. Leave it to me. You two. Aren't you too slow? Did you see it? No. That's a cursed technique, right? You jerk. How many people did you eat? Jogo. Mahito. Hanami. Hana... mi... How dare... How dare you kill Hanami... You killed Hanami! I see. No wonder it's so weak. Because until just now, it was only a curse womb. Water! So much water here. Cursed spirit, do you know how many frames there are in every second of an animation? My name is not cursed spirit. I'm Dagon. Recently, there's been a trend of increasing resolution and frame rate. So is Hanami, Jogo, and Mahito. Such as improving image quality to 4K, or frame interpolating to 60fps. We all have... It's fine if it's for personal enjoyment and doesn't cause trouble for others. But nowadays, TVs automatically enable the motion interpolation feature. It is said to do more harm than good. It is so poignant. With the soap opera effect... We all have our own names! Don't you find this boring? Oh. Not a scratch. Rather, from the feeling of hitting it, his HP seems endless. Even two Grade 1 sorcerers can't exorcise it. This is getting serious. Damn it. If it weren't for the old man's technique, I would have been killed. How shameful. Water barrier? Can you use other cursed techniques? Too much cursed energy. Seems it has many other cursed techniques. What should we do now? The answer is simple. Just crush you with speed before you act! No way. You can even suspend in the air. I would also choose to go upward. I can't activate the cursed technique. This man. This man did it. So fast! He's probably even faster than Jogo. Naobito Zenin's technique "Projection Sorcery" divides one second into 24 parts. He uses his own field of view as perspective, and presets actions within it for imitation. During the technique activation, the target touched by Naobito's palm must also act in 1/24 of a second. If they fail, the action will freeze and they cannot move for a second. There's a risk to this technique. He cannot correct ongoing actions that have been preset. If the actions he set violate the laws of physics or trajectory, he will also be unable to move. Even so, he relies on his innate storyboarding ability and time perception to earn the title of the fastest sorcerer besides Satoru Gojo. Don't even try. (JUJUTSU KAISEN) (JUJUTSU KAISEN) Domain Expansion. Horizon of the Captivating Skandha. Shikigami! It's the can't-miss attack in this domain! I didn't notice until I was hit. No, that thing didn't exist before hitting me? Secret Art, "Falling Blossom Emotion". This technique was passed down in The Big Three Families to fight against domains. Different from Simple Domain, the domain can't be expanded by oneself. When the can't-miss attack is activated and comes into contact with oneself, it releases cursed energy in a counterattack to protect oneself. That man really is different. I've had a rough grasp. Adjust the power to seven for bearded man and three for suit guy. Technique Release. Death Swarm! Maki. The Shikigami are not charging straight at us. At the next moment, they will bite through our bodies. We can't think before act. As soon as you feel a touch, please knock them all down. You have almost no cursed energy, so you can only do it this way. Mr. Nanami! The Shikigami's attack has not weakened at all. Is the technique granted by this domain... Falling... The sea is the source of all life. Too weak, you're the weakest. "Death Swarm" is Shikigami that will appear infinitely. Since I'm so weak, why didn't you kill me in one strike? Stinky octopus! Then I will make you like those two... Damn it. Completely devoured by me. Senior Maki! Megumi! You really are an incredibly arrogant junior. It's that thing. That octopus is the owner of this domain. You invaded my domain voluntarily. How foolish. What? The guaranteed hit in this domain is disappearing. That boy expanded a domain. Now his domain and mine are pulling against each other. If I want to regain the guaranteed hit, I have to destroy his domain first? That's easy. What about those two? Senior Ino was taken down by the enemy. Itadori and I separated. I will protect you. Please focus on the domain. That man actually withstood one minute of Death Swarm? So is the bearded man. Though it's just a right arm, it has a history of 71 years. You will have to pay a considerable price. If we can maintain it, we have a chance to win. If we can maintain it. Mr. Nanami. That octopus thought I am fighting against his domain. But I have a different purpose. I want to make a hole in the domain in this barrier. The hole I came through has been blocked. It's more difficult to make it from inside, but I can maintain a hole for one person to pass through for a few seconds. After all, he is not Mr. Gojo. Logically, he can't expand the domain multiple times in a day. If everyone can leave this domain, we will win. The edge of the barrier is under my feet. I touched it when I came in, so I know. I can start at any time. You three just need to rush in together. We can't leave you alone inside. I will stake my life. But I don't intend to sacrifice it. You two... Gather! They want to protect that boy together? In this way, I can also... No! He noticed, but it's too late. To Fushiguro's feet! Don't you think the ranking of siblings somewhat affects their personality? Sister, you might reinforce the stereotype that the only children are spoiled. That's not too good. Are you trying to deny her? What? (Next Episode: Swaying Part 2) I wonder how many siblings Satoru Gojo has. He's definitely an only child.