Transcript for Kaguya-sama: Love is War (2019-2023): Season 1, Episode 10  - Kaguya Won't Forgive/Kaguya Wants to Forgive/Miyuki Shirogane Wants to Go Somewhere - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- Shuraba. In Indian mythology, this is the place where Asura fought Indra. But today, it has two main meanings. First, the cramming before a deadline. Second, the scene of trouble between two people. Please eat it. Are you kidding? You should eat it. It's my fault. If only I hadn't eaten it. In order to explain this situation, I have to talk about two other incidents. THE VISIT TO KAGUYA'S HOME Shirogane climbed into bed while Kaguya was half-conscious. As a result, they slept lying next to each other for several hours. When Kaguya woke up, she was understandably confused and enraged. But the on-the-spot investigation proved Shirogane's innocence. In the end, they reacted like adults. I'm sorry for yelling at you. No, I'm sorry. They formally reconciled. But the grudge remained. From Kaguya's point of view, he used her weakness while she was sick to get into bed with her. Was he more or less naughty with her? That made her anxious. If he wasn't... Well, that would also make her angry. This was her issue. But Shirogane thought he also had a point about being falsely accused. She pulled him into bed without knowing how hard it was for him to endure and control himself. He was naturally irritated. Especially since Shinomiya continues to look at him with suspicion. All this accumulated animosity had to be released some way or another. THE CAKE INCIDENT A WHILE EARLIER What are these? They're a gift from the principal. You can eat them. Great! Is this all the cake left? The principal wasn't really considerate. He could at least consider how many people are working here. Well, that's because we're the only ones working here before. Don't worry about it and eat, Ishigami. I don't really want it. No, please eat it. I don't really mind. No, you eat it. No, you eat it. No, I mean it. -No, you eat it. -No, you eat it. No, you eat it. It's all right, so eat it. You should eat it. This is how their frustration explodes. Girls like this, so you don't need to hold back. -You also like sweets, right? -The beautiful spirit of compromise! Look, it's getting cold as we speak. -Right. It's also time to go home. -As time passed by, -the situation changed. -It's too late for me to eat it. So please eat it. The longer you're holding on to it, the more it will get mushy. That's why, if you eat it now, we would be able to settle this peacefully. You are a stubborn person. It's all right, eat it. You eat it. There's no need to be weird about it, right? After more than an hour, nothing can still interfere in this fight, as the scene transforms in an underworld of deep resentment. -Even the cake wants you to eat it. -It's my fault. -Don't imply that a cake could talk. -If only I hadn't eaten it. This would... -Prove to me that the cake can't talk! -This is just getting worse. Without proof, that's just sophistry! That's right! Fujiwara! The only one who can stop them is Fujiwara. Why are you so stubborn about eating it? There should be a limit to how stubborn someone can be. Of course, you would know something about being stubborn! It's because of something you once told me. What do you think have I told you? It was only after we started on the Student Council. Shinomiya, do you have any hobbies? I don't. But how is that your business? Not really. You have such lifeless eyes, you know. So I was wondering if there was something you liked. Something I liked? Shortcake. That's what you said! I can't forget how your face looked when you said that. How can you still remember something from a long time ago? How could I forget it? Really? Is that so? My nose is a bit itchy, so I will just scratch it. Don't mind me. Oh, scratch as much as you like! He remembers something from such a long time ago. Since you said that, I'll say something as well. What? At the end of last year. How are you spending Christmas, President? I'll be working. Is that so? That's too bad. Not really. Christmas is just another ordinary day for me. On Christmas morning, my dad just gives me a 20-dollar book gift certificate. We don't particularly celebrate. I've never eaten Christmas cake, but I'm not really jealous. I became a little sad when I heard that story. That's why I want you to eat a lot of this cake since you've never tasted it before! Is that what you were thinking? I see! By the way, my forehead itches. I'm scratching it a bit. Don't mind me. Scratch it as much as you like! That's enough! Instead of being like this, I have an idea. Today, as an exception, I will feed you. What? No, you won't. I will feed you. Don't steal my idea! Hey, don't be shy and open your mouth! You open your mouth! -Open your mouth! -Open your mouth! -Open your mouth! -Open your mouth! We won't get anywhere this way. I will eat after you. No, you eat first. After you eat, I will eat as well. Okay, how about we eat at the same time? Okay! Let's start. This is the friendship police! Bad children who fight will have to stop now! Fighting isn't good. If you can't get along, I will confiscate the cake. Today's results, Kaguya and Shirogane lost. WAR CRIMINAL You need love advice? Well, instead of love advice, I need advice regarding boys. Like, how to reconcile with a boy you had a fight with? I thought since you have a boyfriend, you must have some useful thoughts. Really? You're asking me for love advice? Well, not really love, but I wanted to talk about how to make up with a girl you had a fight with. I see. If that's about it, leave it to me. Because I am the love expert. Really? I'm kidding. You're kidding? Well, I read a lot of romance manga. Then it should be fine. This is about a friend of mine. If you start talking like that, it will sound like the story is about you. But you're not the type who would do something so cliché. Of course. Then? Then why did you fight with him? Well... This is about a friend of mine. It's definitely about her. A friend of mine caught a cold and a boy came to visit her while she was sick. But while she was unconscious, he... well, slept beside her? When she woke up, he was on her bed. What? You can't do that! That's shameless! He's a monster! Of course, nothing happened. Besides, it's possible that she invited him while she was only half-conscious. Even if that's true, when a girl is vulnerable, a guy should behave morally right! That's right! That's how you should look at it! That boy has no morals! Right? Who is this stupid woman? She's stupid. That's obvious and simple. She invites you in herself and then she dares to babble that you're an idiot. She has no morals, right? They're absolutely a pain, women like that. If she's in a manga, she would be a dark-haired, flat-chested woman. -That's obvious. -Just one push and he keeps rolling. No matter how much she insists that she wasn't conscious, to pull a guy into bed, that woman is definitely immoral. At first, she seems pure and clean, and acts so important, but the way she expresses her sexual desire is warped and selfish. She acts as if she's not interested in men, but she eats a good man completely. If men are wolves, women are snakes. Before you know it, they're entangled and eating their own tail, an ouroboros. Oh, how I hate them. I bet after the guy left, she touched... Okay, you can stop now, Ishigami. Well, he still shouldn't have let things happen like that. Even though there was probably a gentler way to handle it, he didn't. He probably didn't want to handle it like that. But in the end, they apologized to each other for that incident, so it's done. However, he acts very normal around her after that. As if nothing happened. Oh, I hate that. When one side frets about it and then the other one doesn't even seem to care. It's not like it was such a light incident. That's right. That's why it's hard not to be a little angry. She can't help it, right? That's right! Since they slept together on a bed, he should take responsibility and at least confess his love for her! That's right! So he really is irresponsible? Right? Such an annoying idiot! They apologized to each other, right? If so, then that's the end of it! What is she dragging it out for? He's loud. Just hearing about it, I get mad. Should I go talk to her? I would reject that stupid woman. But... that incident is settled now. I didn't really think that he should take responsibility for it. Then what are you angry about? What am I angry about? You said he didn't lay a finger on you, and if you don't want him to take responsibility, then what are you angry about? I don't know. What? There's no way I can say it. To be honest, I wish he had touched me even just for a bit or something. -Am I really that unattractive? -I am sorry. How can I be angry about something so stupid? There's no way I can say it. There? That's how a woman would get angry. A man who tries to understand women completely is probably arrogant to begin with. In the end, it's probably best to wait for things to quiet down. If the man has nothing to feel guilty about, there's really no need to apologize. A guilty conscience? Shinomiya, there is something I have to tell you. What is it? I told you I didn't lay a finger on you. But... I did touch you once. Where did you... touch me? On your lips. I just pressed my finger like this. I didn't mean it in a weird way, I was just being silly... President. Now we're even. We will be back to normal starting tomorrow, right? Today's result, they both won. PASSING BY Look here! The Student Council's work is done! And the summer vacation starts tomorrow! PICKING UP FLYERS Shinomiya, do you have any plans for this vacation? Just to go shopping. Will you be working all the time? No, the shift distribution was lighter than I thought. I have a lot of free time. I would like to do something. It would be nice to do something. -Right, Fujiwara? -Right, Fujiwara? Summer vacation schedule. -Mountains. -Sea. The scary mountain! The pending problem of the disputed summer vacation trip. Whether this will result in something or not depends on this moment. A lot of events are organized during the summer vacation. Whether they can be attended by mixed groups of girls and boys is the starting point that everything else depends on. If they went in a mixed group at first, they would discuss where to go and when to go next. Thus, possibilities are born. But if they start off on the wrong foot, the psychological difficulty of a mixed group will be bigger. Then they will spend the summer vacation in groups of boys or girls exclusively. If they failed at this, it would be a bleak summer vacation! This wouldn't happen! This wouldn't happen! This wouldn't happen! This wouldn't happen! This wouldn't happen! This either! Reality! Reality! A trip with Shinomiya. Of course, I would want to go! But if I started talking about a trip... Oh my, president! You feel the need to bring up that old topic again? That was just a temporary idea. It's not something we need to discuss again. Don't tell me that you really want to go on the trip. Did you have high hopes for it? How cute is that? That's what she'd say! Hey, you were the one who started talking about it. What are you waiting for? Secretary Fujiwara. Summer vacation will be over before we know it. That's right. That's why I want to spend it doing things I can't normally do. A trip would be wonderful! Yes, exactly! A trip. Everyone needs time to get away from the noise of the big city. Yes! -I am also... -This could work! ...going to Hawaii for a week! You're a tramp! You were the one talking about how you want to go on a trip with everyone! How can you go to Hawaii all by yourself? Shinomiya! She's like your friend or something, so do something about it! That's right. A trip would be nice. Kaguya understands the importance of this part when planning a vacation. But Kaguya has known Fujiwara for a long time, and knows that she never behaves the way you would like her to. That's why she's blank. Her wishful heart is also blank. Breathing is fun. It's useless! I don't feel any motivation from her. Well, now that Fujiwara mentioned a trip, it can't be helped. It was hard to talk about a group trip from the start. At least we have that! We could manage a day trip somewhere! But... Going somewhere without Fujiwara? In other words, you don't want to have fun with anyone but me? Oh, my. How cute is that? That's how it would end! As I thought, we can't talk about a trip without Fujiwara! -Aloha! -Couldn't she do something with us... the week after her trip? Secretary Fujiwara. It's nice to go abroad, but traveling in Japan is also good. There are many events in the summer too. What are you saying? The summer of the second year is a crucial point for exams! I don't have the time to be distracted by having fun! This phony! Who are you to say that when you're going on a trip to Hawaii? That's exactly why I'm keeping a balance between fun and study! Damn it, that's a fair argument. President, it won't work. It's useless to try to control Fujiwara. In times like these, I think of delicious things. Damn it! I thought I could finally make Shinomiya mine, this summer! How cute is that? No matter what pattern I follow, it always turns out like that. Maybe it can't be helped. But... I would like to form some nice memories at least once. Ishigami? I am only in my first year and you're all in your second year. Next year, you'll be busy studying, so we might not get this chance again. Maybe we can only have fun at least this year. Ishigami, you stopped to consider this? That's true. Summer isn't only about having fun with women. Fooling around with guy friends, that's also part of summer. Let's go, Ishigami. There's a big festival at the end of summer. I'll treat you to an octopus dumpling. Summer vacation? Let's go! How about your crucial study time? That sounds so nice! Cotton candy! Rifle range! Fireworks! Fireworks? Fireworks with the president? Great! The festival is on August 24. If we're free, let's go. That's right. Me too... Oh, I can't go. I'm going to a tomato festival in Spain around that time. You stupid tramp! How many trips are you going on? Damn it! I was greedy! -The collapse of the blank heart. -I was greedy! Don't tell me you will still go? You will all go without me to the summer festival? Would you do such an awful thing? Of course, we're going. You're also going to the tomato festival. How can you want us to not go when you will be having fun on your own? You're awful, Ishigami! You're stupid! And cold-blooded! And your bangs are too long! How could you, Ishigami! I hope you burn your tongue on octopus dumplings! I did it again. I'm also going home. No, Ishigami. You did the right thing. Today's result, everyone but Fujiwara won. Then, let's meet there at seven o'clock on that day. Yes. I'm looking forward to it. That was the start of the summer vacation story of a man and a woman. ENLARGED I THOUGHT SO Subtitle translation by Maria Carbune