Transcript for Recipes for Love and Murder (2022–…): Season 1, Episode 7  - Episode #1.7 - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- [female narrator]Previously, on Recipes for love and murder. Two citizens have been murdered and the big bad detective has no idea who did it. [instrumental music] Martine-- Deserves a professional investigation into her death. So does Lawrence Khubeka. And that's my job, not yours. I was wondering if Martine was thinking of leaving him. Just something she said about, borrowing money. She knew that dad would say go. His kids won't see a single cent until he's dead. -Such a sad, eh? -Yeah. What are you... Where is your socialist calling? If you mean our star reporter, she's at the hospital. Awaiting news of what might be the town's third murder victim. What did the doctor say? Something about tests. I couldn't really pay attention. Did he take samples of what he ate or drank. You ask a lot of questions. She's a reporter, it's her job. She's trying to solve Martine's murder for us. Oh, cock. The killer wants you to know that he knows who you are. We could meet to discuss your advertising plans for the next few issues. Oh. Coffee in a couple of days. Such a lovely shirt that you're wearing. -Turn around. And again. -Yep. Yes. I don't think, he's waking up anytime soon. Okay, let's do it. We'll have to act fast. Before the poison finishes him off. Aileen. Look at this, what I just got. [instrumental music] [Aileen]It must be a bit odd, hearing from me after all these year. Blast from the past, eh? But I miss you. I miss talking about the old days. And Mickey. Oh, and my husband. I'm married now. [phone ringing] Hello? [Jessie]Tannie M. Come quick. Give us a bell, eh? When you're ready. Lots of love. How was that? Very convincing. I just wish she'd just reply. There's no need for all of this. [theme music] [music continues] [music continues] [upbeat music] [phone vibrating] Yeah. Jess. Hey. Is he even conscious? You sure? My mom heard Candy and Martine's brother when she went to go take the old man's vitals, they were talking to a lawyer about changing his will. Okay, will-will get over there now. Okay, bye. Let me guess, our home away from home. The hospital, my girlfriend says that-- Tell me on the way. Come, let's go. Come! [instrumental music] We just need your signature. Dave has prepared everything. It's for the best, Uncle Peter. She's right Pa. You should sign. Wait! Don't do it! Excuse me, that's my patient. Take the two of them away from him. David Burger, I need to talk to you. Quite the party you're all having here, I hope someone brought cake? Why is everyone so dramatic? Gosh! Please can you read this to them? "I, Peter John--" Just the important bit. Hereby, leave my entire estate to my granddaughter, Jamie Burger. With independent trustees. So you can call your cops off my company accounts, detective. And please, stop trying to reach my ex-wife. He never gave me a cent in his life, why would I want it when he's died? -David didn't poison him. -Nobody did. What! He wasn't poisoned. Any information on why he collapsed? I was bringing you the test results, but I might as well tell the police and... everyone else all at the same time. Your father is allergic to nutmeg. It's the milk tart! Yes, the milk tart is the villain. But he'll be as right as rain in a day or two. Thank you, doctor. I'm sorry our date was just a fishing expedition for you. I really liked you. Thank you. I do apologize for all this. [instrumental music] I'm sorry. I understand. You so want desperately to solve Martine's murder, I appreciate that. I shouldn't have believed that you were capable of-- Covering up a murder? I've contemplated murder from time to time, but it was always a boyfriend, not a cousin. Martine and Lawrence they- they deserve justice. Don't we all. I don't blame you for believing the detective. If he had taken me into his confidence, all serious with those big brown eyes, I'd have believed anything. No, I-I-I don't, I mean, I don't. We're all good sweetie. Trust me. [instrumental music] I say this with a heavy heart, but I'm afraid the Gazette has not acted in our community's best interests. Oh, dear. Terrible thing this is, terrible, really terrible. What community exactly are you referring to? The community around this table. Entrepreneurs. Friends. We are a small business forum. Hmm? We are here to support the economic development of this town, and to be pro-business. I am definitely pro-business, I welcome your business anytime. We all know how hard it is to pay even minimum wages and the workers are never satisfied, they're trying to cripple our businesses! Marius. All in favour of not advertising in the Gazette, until they change their editorial style? -Hmm? -Seconded. The community newspaper is no place for-- News relevant to the community? Tannie Elna. I do love reading Tannie Maria's column and trying to guess who wrote the letters. And I think I know which local businessman is having difficulties in the bedroom. I let Candy get in my head. So you were wrong about her, that happens. Well, I was distracted. You were just following the money. Yeah, I feel like I'm missing something obvious. Did you run out of reassurances already? Sometimes it is not that obvious. But that's what we're here for. Oh, you're right. I just need to focus, and just get the job done. Not be distracted. Just tell the front desk that I'm not taking any calls. [phone ringing] Hello? Oh, Regardt. Yeah, put him through. Hello? Oh, I'm sorry the detective is not available right now, but I'm his Deputy, can I take a message? Okay. [instrumental music] Got it, thanks. So who was that? No distractions! Was it about the case? -Hey! -No distractions. I hope you won't hold today against me. You are trying to get my paper shut down. I just think you're making the wrong business decisions. My business is fine, thanks for your concern. Is it? Bills all paid? You made it clear you wanted me to treat you like a business associate. That's what I'm doing. If you want things to go back to how they were, I'm-I'm more than happy too. You really don't understand boundaries, do you? Oh, and by the way. I'm sorry you lost the vote. [instrumental music] Hello, hello! Morning, Doep! Ah, Hattie, I was just putting in this through to you. Ah, let's hope it's someone in desperate need of boerewors! Oh, you know how the people in this town like their boerewors, don't you, Hattie? How? Still attached to the Boer! [laughs] [instrumental music] It was glorious! In the end only Cornel and Marius voted against us. And then we moved onto "any other business", and Mr. Viljoen complained about a rat problem in a building that Marius owns. They obviously recognize him as one of their own. Jessie! I think this calls for a celebration. I could make us a cake, amarula fudge. I think you can celebrate by both staying in the office and actually doing your jobs this morning please! Yes, ma'am! -Does anybody want tea? -Yes, please. -Oh, this came in late for you. -Oh, thanks. -So-- -Yeah. Girlfriend, huh? -Yeah. -Took you bloody long enough. Did you meet her folks yet? Uh...not yet. Um-but it's just her mom, her dad. I actually met him once or twice when I was still a kid, before he left, but I didn't know then. What? That he was her dad? That she was...Jessie. -You're such a romantic, eh? -Piet, come on. [laughs] [instrumental music] [Farmer Joe]Dear Tannie Maria. My wife thinks I'm wasting my time writing to you and all I really need is a lawyer. You see, the problem is my field. Or really... the problem is the sheep that keep destroying my field. Sheep are just woolly rats if you ask me. Have you been planting in my field again? I'm so tired of arguing, 'cause I know he's wrong and I'm right. How can I keep his sheep from eating my sweet potatoes? Sheepless in Swellendam. [cup shatters] [upbeat music] [knock on the door] Sorry to disturb, sir, but um- Um...Tannie Maria just received a death threat! I'll be ready to go in few minutes. Um, sir, I was thinking maybe we could do a weekly yoga session-- -Out! -Okay. [Hattie]Would you like some sugar? I could run and get you a chocolate. -There's sugar in the tea! -That's true. Maybe we should shut down for a while. And let them win? What do you call that bird that comes back from the dead? Let the police catch them! Fifty percent of murderers are never caught. He's only threatening us because we're close! It rises from the flames, from the ashes. We could go to my cousin's farm in Oudtshoorn, and run the Gazette from there. A phoenix, Maria, you're thinking of a phoenix. No, Hattie, I'm gonna find whoever did this and I am going to clap them so hard Tannie M. And then I'm gonna track them down, and stick a knife to their throat. -Is this it? -Yes, yes. Any of these people have you been harassing? Excuse me, we have harassed no one! Would you like some tea, detective? I should have tasted that. Investigating, if you want to call it that then. Anyone you've argued within the last few days? Mostly you. Detective, perhaps we should sit down and discuss this. What can you smell? Fresh blood. But not human. From the butchery? Has anyone touched that, or just you? I don't know. But yes, Hattie- Hattie gave it to me. -And Doep gave it to me. -Just check with the butcher? [instrumental music] Maria. Your life is in danger. You've had two death threats now. We've already lost valuable police time, in ensuring that you have an overnight guard. Now is there any way that you could just leave town? I'm not going anywhere. Then please-please keep out of this business? No-one needs your meddling. I feel like I'm wasting my time. Regardt here is gonna need to take statement from all of you. Has anyone seen Anna Pretorius? Anna? No. Is she in trouble? Careful. No one has seen her since the funeral. We don't know where she is. I've been canvassing ever since the meeting, and I think that if you and I start the boycott, then the others will follow. No, man, Marius, we can't cut advertising in the paper. Of course we can! That woman must learn her place. Look, if you don't advertise in this Friday's paper, and city folk who come up here for the weekend start browsing the property ads, whose houses are they gonna buy? We can't just let the newspaper get away with the bloody communism! I agree. We can't. You found Anna Pretorius? Uh, no sir but I wanted to-- Any lead on the death threat? No, sir. Sir, um... I, uh... I think that Tannie Maria was a bit upset about earlier, sir. You know, it's not her fault that she's getting death threats and that we have to have a police guard on her house and... I think perhaps that... after what you said she might feel guilty about that. Is that all? Yes, sir. [solemn music] Bug off, you. I'm not in no mood for your noise. [Piet]Oh well, I'll try and be quiet then. Hello. So, you suggested we have a chat about that greenhouse plan? Oh, yes! Of course I did. You're very lucky that they're looking after the garden they're fantastic for pests. When they're not being pests themselves. [laughs] She's got no time for me these days, always gallivanting. I think there's one there by you. -Oh. -Peel it. Supper plants. Resolving a land dispute. Thank you, Piet. [instrumental music] [Maria] Dear Sheepless in Swellendam. I think it's time to embrace the fact that... just like brothers, sheep and sweet potatoes can coexist in perfect harmony. You'll need two pans, one for the potatoes, one for the meat. They still need a little time apart. Get a little water boiling in one pan. And in the other, a dash of oil, and onion, carrot and celery, those ingredients that just get along with each other perfectly. Smell great, Ms. September. Yeah, it's best when mom cooks. What, it's true. [Maria]Time to introduce the lamb mince. I always think, people are missing a trick when they insist that there's only one right answer to a problem. That's like saying that, you can only add salt or pepper. But not both. Thanks for getting the sweet potato on the go. You really want to soften them up. Well, thank you for trusting me with them. [laughs] [Maria]Enrich the flavour of the mince with Worcestershire sauce, tomato paste, tomatoes and delicious herbs. You ready to put those muscles to good use? Anything for a good potato. [laughs] [instrumental music] [Maria]Mash your potatoes till they're silky smooth and utterly inviting. Now it's time to bring those bold flavours together. It's all about layers. So you, spoon your lamb mixture into the casserole dish. And then you slather it with sweet potato. [Maria]And then you add some cheese. Yes, for extra gooiness. -Thanks for coming. -Yeah. I loved it. You should-you should meet my family next. They...they're not like yours. Thank goodness! Man, don't worry, they won't bite. I'll go. Bye. And then you bake until golden. -And that's it? -Well, I mean- It's almost it. It's not finished until we eat it. You'll have to bring some to the station for me tomorrow. You're not staying tonight? Got to get home to the family. They're planning to thrash me at Monopoly tonight. -Well, then who's-- -Oh, the boss. I heard his car arriving earlier. Thanks for the cooking lesson! I'll start costing the material for the greenhouse. Oh, great. I'll make sure and, um, save you a big portion. Someone called the station today. A Detective from Scotland. I thought what connects Scotland and Eden? -What did he want? -He didn't wanna tell me. And the boss was busy. But he said he'd call again. Thanks, Piet. Goodnight. You want to talk about it, or-- Goodnight. [singing in foreign language] [singing in foreign language] Hot chocolate. Ooh. -Hey. -Thanks, ma! Do you remember pa's old boss? You know he's Regardt's uncle? No, I didn't. I thought you should. Maybe, they invite you for supper sometime. Hmm. So that's what he wanted to warn me about his racist family. You never talk about pa. It's...it's hard, Jess. He was the other half of my soul. I was the serious one, and he was the sunshine. When I got anxious, he would tell me jokes. My money was tight he'd play his guitar until I danced around the kitchen. I was never poor when I had him. Then he just... -Jessie? -Mm-hmm. Be sure he makes you richer. Be sure you don't make yourself small for him. [upbeat music] [laughs] You are the dancer in the family. ♪ The sound of falling rain ♪ Okay. Okay next step here. In your hips. ♪ A mind ♪ Fast as a dog. Faster, watch me. [laughs] ♪ I remember you ♪ ♪ I remember you my darling ♪ All of my dreams had a dark butterfly patch of blood in the middle. Which is harder...someone you love dying, or dying yourself? See, all I know is that... if someone you love dies... you wish it had been you instead. [instrumental music] Morning. Morning. Oh, wow Jessie. You must have been up all night. It wasn't me. Nobody issues death threats to my staff. We're not stopping until we've solved this. So... along the top there's a timeline of the day of Martine's death, and anyone who saw her they're linked and marked in blue. Anyone who had a grudge against her, they're marked in green. Jess, you mark all the people that you still have suspicions about. -Okay. -Maria. You mark everyone that you've personally spoken to. And it has to be one of them sending the death threat, I'm sure of it. Oh, Mr. van Wyk. Wondering if I might have a word. -Put yesterday behind us. -Sure -Can I come in? -It's best not. Oh, right-well, I was just passing by and I thought- Well, I thought I should apologize. Things got out of hand yesterday. These things happen. Thanks again for stopping by. Right, yeah-ah, wait, also- the, uh, committee elections are coming up very soon I... I was wondering if perhaps you might consider running for secretary? Thank you so much. I'll give that my full consideration. Goodbye! -Oh, right, yes, uh-- -Goodbye. -Bye-bye. -Goodbye. Oh, the poor man! He's just like... One Gazette enemy down, another to go. [intense music] Sweet potato Shepherd's pie. For you. You kill one of my sheep for that? You know I didn't. Dad didn't mean for this, when he split the farm. You know he didn't. Dad never really used this field, did he? Only for teaching us how to drive a tractor. Lucy will like this. Aren't you going to be late to take ma to bingo? What are you talking about, it's your turn to take her! I took her last week, remember? Yes, as a favour because Rosie was sick. -So now it's your turn. -No! You covered for my turn last week but this week is still your turn! Fine, cover me then. No, you need to ask me in advance! You're so damn selfish, no wonder you kept the old farmhouse and made me build a new one. Oh, here we go again. You know what, you keep the damn field. Dad didn't need it, neither do I. No, you keep it. You want everything your way so... Keep the damn field too! [instrumental music] [grunts] [screams] This is very good. [music continues] [speaking in foreign language] [screams] Please, ma, it would be so great if you'd come and watch me. I'd love to come, but it would mean losing a whole shift. -Maybe Jess would come-- -Jessie is not my mother. Thank goodness for that. Bronwyn, you know, I'd love to have more time for you. But I still think you should ask Jessie. Jessie is always working now too and... if she's not working, she's with her boyfriend, so... Hmm, and if I stopped working what would happen then, hmm? The food, the electric, the school fees, who'd pay those? [instrumental music] [Maria]Donuts, simple. Two tablespoons of white vinegar, three-eights of a cup of milk... Dear, Mr. Rabies, a private word of advice. If you keep trying to dictate what gets printed in our paper, we might have to publish a fun public interest piece about your doughnut habits. P.S., if you follow this recipe I suggest a caramel icing. [intense music] Still no sign of Anna? Nobody's seen nothing. We have got patrols watching her house, Martine's house, Dirk's guesthouse, nothing. -Smells delicious. -Mm-hmm. But you can't have any of it. One potential lead. But Regardt's gone to check it out. Okay. As soon as we find her, let me know. [indistinct announcement] -It's busy here today? -Yes. It was me you know. -I took the picture. -Picture? Mr. van Wyk said, they were looking for her. He's very, very close to the detective. -Who were they looking for? -Anna. She bought all the pomegranate juice that we had. That was Martine's favourite. But she bought it the day Martine died? Mr. van Wyk said to be helpful to the police. He said it's important for him to know that. And when I really looked at the picture, I said I was sure she'd bought the juice here before. But the actual day though? It's important. I don't know, yes, I told the police, she has definitely bought pomegranate juice here before. Do you think she and Martine were... You know... Chittle, Chittle, I'm right. I'm right. [phone ringing] Karoo Gazette. Hattie Wilson speaking. Mr. Rabie. Yes. Yes, of course, I'd be happy to. Yes. Well, I'll send the agreement through this evening. Wonderful. Thank you so much! Bye. There must be something in the water, first van Wyk apologizes, and now Marius is committing to six months of ads... at a higher spend. I don't trust him. What does he want? No, he didn't ask for anything. You're not gonna stop me doing my series on local workers' rights? No. Of course not. We'll spread it out a little. This is great news, Jess. This business needs the money, I mean that's how businesses work. Maybe the news shouldn't be a business Hatts. Maybe not, but here we are. [instrumental music] [Khiza]I'm not available. You know what to do. Hi, lollipop. I guess you're in class now. I'm just calling to say hi, and let you know that I miss you. Today is a hard day for you. I miss her too. I know we don't talk much about her. And I'm sorry, if I'm making it hard for you. [knock on door] I may stop rambling. Um...looking forward to seeing you soon. Come! Yes. Um...something potentially interesting at the Koop, sir. Anna. When was this picture taken? This morning. She can't be too far away. [upbeat music] [Khaya]Hello? -I'm out at the back. Lucky for you, I'm not a murderer. Did you just come to lecture me some more? No. In fact, I... I came to apologize. Well, yesterday I was unnecessarily rude to you. I'm sorry. I know all you're trying to do is help. I'm trying to catch a killer. That's my job. Not yours. I'm not stupid. I'm not going to do things that are dangerous. I know you won't do that on purpose. I'm just worried that the danger might follow you. So you'll discuss the case with us? I can't do that. But I'll try not to be a dick about it. [birds cawing] [instrumental music] [music continues] Hey! [bleating] [car wipers whirring] What the hell? You need to tell that wild child of yours her uncle is not a bulls eye. No, he's not a bulls eye, he's a donkey's ass! She knocked my hat right off my head! So? She's a kid, that's what kids do. We did that. Hey. Hey, you remember when you knocked out... old Man Sinclair with your catty? Now pa made us sleep outside the whole night 'cause he didn't know which of us did it. Yeah... [upbeat music] [singing in foreign language] [singing in foreign language] Ma! [laughs] [singing in foreign language] [phone ringing] Hello? What if we've got it all wrong? Gotten what all wrong? What if... Anna was angry. I mean, Martine chose to stay with a man who abused her, rather than be with her. And then... Anna finds out that Martine is planning to leave. I mean, leave Dirk, yes, but also leave Anna, leave everything. What if... Anna keep saying that she's responsible for Martine's death because...she is. Tannie M, if she did kill Martine, why wouldn't she just leave town though? Maybe she has unfinished business. [intense music] [country music] [singing in foreign language] [singing in foreign language]