Transcript for Kaguya-sama: Love is War (2019-2023): Season 1, Episode 2  - Kaguya Wants to Trade/Chika Wants to Go Somewhere/Miyuki Wants to Hide His Ignorance - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- CONFESSION -When you fall in love with someone... -Will you... go out with me? You confess your love... and it'll be accepted. Anyone would tell you that it's a wonderful thing, but everything is wrong about that! Even between lovers, there is always a clear power struggle. There is the one who exploits and the one who is being exploited. One who crushes and one who gets crushed. There's always a winner and a loser. You're saying you want to live an honorable life, then you should, by no means, not become the loser. Love is a war! The moment you fall in love, you lose. The private Shuchiin Academy. This prestigious school, with its ancient and noble origin, was founded to educate the pupils born in the upper crust of the society. Even though that the nobility class system has been abolished, students from distinguished families, who will, one day, rule the country continues to attend this academy. Coming up next, a message from the student council. The members of the Student Council! Of course, they wouldn't let these students to be led by normal, ordinary people. Kaguya Shinomiya, the vice-president of the Student Council. Total assets, two hundred trillion yen. Being the eldest daughter of the Shinomiya Group, who owns more than a 1,000 subsidiaries, and four industrial groups. She is definitely a genuine young woman. Just like the superiority of her bloodline, she is, undoubtedly, a talented young woman. With having such brilliant talents in arts, music, and martial arts. She is Kaguya Shinomiya. Meanwhile, the man supporting Shinomiya is... Miyuki Shirogane, the president of the Student Council. Sincere, vigorous, sensible, and intelligent, he always ranks number one in the mock examinations. In contrast to the talented Kaguya, he earns respect and awe as an experienced scholar. Due to his exemplary conduct, even he just transferred to the school, he was selected to be the president of the Student Council. He, then, gets to wear the pure gold braided cord that has been passed down through generations for 200 years. That is all. They always look so splendid. When they are together, they look even more noble and graceful. I wonder if they are dating. Oh, no! If that were true, it would be such a shock. I wonder what they always talk about in the student council room. STUDENT COUNCIL ROOM President! Did you suddenly buy a smartphone? I even have the LINE application. Then let's exchange usernames. We are living in the IT era. Even the stubborn and cheap Shirogane who long proclaimed they were useless finally got off his backside. There's no need to explain -how useful smartphones are... -I love it. -...for a high school student. -It's so useful and wonderful! Arranging to meet people or making small talk on the phone, worrying or being happy while waiting for replies, you can even confess your love on LINE! It was because he didn't have LINE that half of his year was wasted. Well, now, you can come and ask my username anytime now, Shinomiya! Yes, I have your username now. Why isn't she asking me? This is my personal information. Never mind. Should I just tell her myself? But... asking for contact information from girls. One can read your desperation and hidden desires in this kind of behavior and it gets a special meaning. A meaning, or in other words, love. The absolute rule of romantic relations is that the person to fall in love loses. The one who admits being in love concedes defeat. Asking for the contact information of a girl is the same as confessing your love. The President seems to like the Vice President. Really? Tell me more. That's like a death sentence for boys at puberty. I absolutely can't do it. It's impossible for me to ask her. Shinomiya, come and ask me. President, are you waiting for me to come and ask you? That's completely impossible. For a girl like me to ask you while being embarrassed would mean something, right? Fight! This is inevitable in the world. To kill or be killed? -Your ID? -Your ID? To ask or be asked? It's not too much to say that this decides the superiority among humans. Good grief. How much trouble do you think I went to just to make him get a smartphone? With this, I can finally contact him outside of school. You could say that the plan worked for the most part. I see. In the end, she wants me to ask her, as I am the man. If that's the way she wants it... Oh, President, what's this profile photo? Oh, it's a picture of me as a child. It's cute! Even then you already had a bad boy look. -A picture of him as a kid? -it was like a warning. But this is a little embarrassing. -I don't really... -I should change it with another picture. I will change it in three minutes. What's this? If he changes his profile picture already, I won't be able to see the current one anymore. But to ask him for his contact information would be the same as telling him, "I want to be able to speak with you anytime!" Then that's the same as saying I want to write to you just before I fall asleep the night before a test, sending messages one after another and chatting idly for a long time. It's not like I'm thinking about that kind of things at all! For a lady, it's impossible to act so improper and ask for the contact information of a man! I have no choice but to use my trump card. Kaguya? President, you're a terrible person. Why did you do such a horrible thing? Cheating skill, engaged! It's so terrible, President! -It's terrible! -This doesn't mean anything in particular, but if someone tells you you're horrible, you start feeling that you did something. In terms of psychology, this is called the Barnum effect. I'm sorry, I didn't make you feel left out. Look, I'm showing it to you, too. Look at it! It's too late. Absolute memory! In a split second, Kaguya saved Shirogane's profile pictures in her hippocampus. Shirogane lost his single secret weapon! Kaguya makes an overwhelming, superior comeback! All right, now there is no reason for me to ask the President's username. Now, go ahead and ask me politely. Something, I have to do something. Shirogane is looking for a way out of it. I have to do it. Kaguya is thinking of a way to force it out of him. -There it is! -The end is before her eyes! That's right! To be talking about LINE in front of Kaguya, who has an old Japanese phone, it's so terrible. I am sorry! It can't use it? You're rich, you should replace it with a new one! It's the same phone I've been using since kindergarten. I'm attached to it! I won't replace this one. -Give up on your weird fixations! -This story... -How is this weird? -...is about love and wit of people who keep going in circles. WE EXCHANGED MAIL ADDRESSES It's cold today. I wonder if summer can't come sooner. You are pretty hasty. There's still plenty of spring left. No! Time goes by really fast. If you're careless, you will be graduating in no time. 80 PERCENT DAMAGE TO SHINOMIYA AND SHIROGANE When summer comes, let's take a trip with everyone from the Student Council. That would be nice. Let's go somewhere with friends. A trip, eh? It would be nice to go to the mountains. The refreshing air, the echoes, renting a cottage and having a barbeque, and then at night, we'll be caught in the magic of the night sky. Look! That's the summer triangle, the Deneb, Altair, and Vega stars. Altair and Vega are the shepherd and the weaver of Japanese legends. They're just like us, then. So close... and yet so far away from each other. I don't like it! I want to be the B Centauri star to your A Centauri! Please let me revolutionize the heaven with you! My, my. What an exceptional, spoiled little star! This is it! This is only possible in the mountains! That's true, if we went... It would have to be to the sea. Sea versus mountains! A resolute battle fought since ancient times! The curtain rises for a battle of strong thought patterns of human beings. The sea, the origin of life. The sun setting down again and again returns people to being animals that rely on instinct. I would bewitch the president in my bathing suit right away! The president trapped in the sea's magic would confess his love to me at sunset. Perfect. The sound of the sea roaring is the best lullaby. The salty sea breeze would blow out the summer's heat, right? The sea? Anything but the sea. I don't know how to swim! Maybe if I used a tube in the sea... President, are you a bad swimmer? How cute of you! No way! It has to be the mountains! Who would want to go to the sea? There are a lot of people on the beach, and the sand is sticky. Let's use the private beach of the Shinomiya Group. There are showers and thermal baths installed there. Sunburns are the maiden's greatest enemy! Then let's use the best sunscreen lotion. We can call the best aesthetician to take perfect care of our skin. There are sharks. Let's invite the best shark hunter from Florida. We could have a shark fin for dinner. Damn it. These rich people! You're sweet, President! I already prepared a manual in case you opposed this idea. No matter what you bring up, I can counter it. You can only go to the sea during summer, right? In the mountains, the weather changes easily and it can also rain. There are also a lot of insects. Insects? Flies! Mosquitos! Anything but insects... I can stand anything but insects! What should I do? If I go to the sea, I can't swim. If I go to the mountains, there are insects! Should I buy a bathing suit? I won! Oh, that's right! Last year's bathing suit doesn't fit me anymore, so I have to buy a new one. Shinomiya is confident about her figure, but remove that from her, her attack power becomes weak, like that of a peashooter. If you compare that with the Fujiwara's tank, the difference in power is quite a gap. That's bad! Never mind about bewitching the president. What are those? What should we call Shinomiya in comparison to that? A childish chest? Let's go to the mountains. At sea, the sand sticks to you, there are a lot of people and even sharks. -The mountains are better. -That's not what you said. No, the sea is better. In the mountains, it rains, and there are many insects. -Let's go to the sea. -I think so, too! -To the mountains! -The sea! -Mountains! -Sea! If we'll be like this, let's let Fujiwara decide for us. -What, me? -Yes, let's do that. Let's go to the sea, okay? Do you understand? To the mountains! You won't betray me, right? If I have to pick one... it would be the mountains. Yes! Oh, mountains are fine, but I would like to go to the scary mountain. -The scary mountain? -The scary mountain? To the children's limbo, at the pool of blood in hell, with many windmills rotating the cycle of death and rebirth. If we go all that way, we could have a blind medium summon a spirit of the dead. Who should it be? -Well, we can think about it in summer. -Christ? Buddha? Prince Shotoku's fine. -Aristotle? Shakespeare? -That's right. -Cleopatra? Einstein? Hideyoshi Toyotomi? -Today's result, -Gandhi? Sen no Rikyu? -It came to nothing. Caesar? Marie Antoinette? Oscar François de Jarjayes? FUJIWARA CHIKA Love advice? Yes, I'm asking you, the renowned winner of a hundred love battles. I thought you could surely give me some good advice. I understand. I'll see what I can do. President! The battle of a hundred love battles? When did I get such an image? Shirogane Miyuki, 17 years old. Romantic experience, none. What? If I give him a really bad advice... The president was a virgin. A virgin? What a disappointment! Shinomiya! How cute of you. Damn it! I just have to get through it somehow. Leave romance to me! I have never been rejected in my life! As expected of you, President! Since he's never confessed, it's not a lie. The president is giving romantic advice? This is my chance to find out how he feels about romantic things. Then, what do you need advice on? There is this girl in my class, Kashiwagi. I was thinking of telling her that I like her. But when I think she might reject me, I thought it might be best to observe our relationship a little longer. By the way, are you in contact with her? She gave me chocolates last Valentine's Day. What kind of chocolate? Choco balls, three of them. Those are obligatory chocolates, right? That's nothing else but obligation. That is... -She is surely in love with you. -What? Just because of the choco balls? Listen! Women are not honest about their feelings. They always do the opposite of what they feel. In other words, even the chocolates that seem obligatory... Does that mean that she likes me? What do you mean, the opposite? -Okay, I said something appropriate. -But I don't think she is like that. A few days ago... Hey, do you have a girlfriend or someone like that? I don't, but... Just as I thought. He says he doesn't have a girlfriend! He doesn't look like he has one, though. That's so funny! So I thought she was just making fun of me. It's too bad, but they were actually making fun of him. The way the opposite sex views you has been really a problem. You. You're at your bloom. Why are you doubting women so much? They are human beings just like you. -That's not what he said earlier! -Here's how to understand them. Hey, do you have a girlfriend or someone like that? If you don't, I would like to date you. I don't, but... Just as I thought! You are tied to me by destiny! He said he doesn't have a girlfriend. He doesn't look like he has one, though. Because he's too noble for that! That's so funny! I am so happy that he's single! I am just the right one for him. Isn't he seeing this too positively? How stupid of me. Exactly! I just had to choose only one of them. You are the stupid one! Wouldn't that cause a rift in their friendship? Worst comes to worst, it might result to bullying. That is how female friendships are. What's with this condescending conversation? But it's all right. She has you. She's yours to protect. It's my job to protect her. President! What's this? But it's my first time confessing to a girl. How do you do that? I have a good idea! If the aforementioned girl were here... Yes. Then you go like this... Go out with me. And then, you crush her against the wall and she will grow anxious, but as soon as you whisper your love in her ears, her anxiousness will turn into palpitation and your chance to succeed will be bigger. Oh, that scared me. I call this technique... "Walls down." I gave the name for it. That's already a thing! It's called "wall slamming." A... genius? You ignorant fool! Thank you very much! Thanks to you I have the courage now. After all, the "Walls down" worked perfectly with Shinomiya. No, I am not dating Shinomiya. That's right. I haven't been taken down. Is that so? From afar, you look good together. No, it's the exact opposite. Lately, I feel like she hates me. She seems to not be interested in me at all. What? I don't really hate him. Did I do something? No self-awareness. President, the important thing is what you feel for Shinomiya! What do I feel for Shinomiya? Well, honestly, she's a rich genius, so she's annoying sometimes. She's surprisingly careless, looks scary, and her breasts are also... But maybe all these are good qualities. In fact, she's cool! She's beautiful, and ladylike, and graceful. Moreover, she's smart and perfect! Shinomiya is really the best woman! She's really there. I'm glad I noticed. Anyway, if you don't confess, nothing will happen. If you keep thinking of weird strategies and tactics, nothing good will happen. What is this? Saying this feels kind of right. I... I will try my best. Thank you very much. Kaguya? Did something good happen? No, nothing at all. A little while later... He confessed to Kashiwagi and it seems like they are dating now. President, I made tea for you. Oh, thank you. Her mood seems to have improved. I'm really glad. -Today's results... -Are you happy about something? -No, I'm the same as usual. -Shirogane isn't particularly responsible why Kaguya went from being mad and then fine, but he wasted all his efforts, so Shirogane lost today. THE SECOND PERSON WHO ASKED FOR ADVICE Subtitle translation by Maria Carbune