Transcript for Jujutsu Kaisen (2020–…): Season 2, Episode 16  - Thunderclap - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- I understand very well. I've known this for a long time. But I didn't expect... (JUJUTSU KAISEN Shibuya Incident) He has no cursed energy, but he is so fast. This guy might amount to the best version of Senior Maki. I need to concentrate. Thanks to Senior Inumaki. All normal and transfigured humans have been evacuated. I need to imagine a scene where I defeat him. Imagine defeating him. Rabbit Stampede. That is the aura of Sukuna's finger. What's happening in Shibuya right now? He dashed here based on his intuition! Damn. The cursed energy I have left is not enough to expand my domain. 11:01 P.M. SHIBUYA STREAM Kusakabe. We don't need to investigate inside the building, right? I know it's inside the curtain, but thanks to Toge, most people have already been evacuated. Let's go to Satoru. How can we get to the fifth floor underground? Toge said that Satoru was really sealed. We should hurry up. You have mentioned Gojo all the time. It's not like he's the only person in the world. Right now, perhaps there's someone trembling in a corner of Shibuya. For example, a lower-grade elementary school girl. What if we can't find her? We could be culprits if she's deprived of her future. That makes sense. If you understand, check every building, every floor, and even every toilet's lid. Damn, I can't come up with more excuses. I am not going to the fifth floor underground. I just want to keep procrastinating. Why? Because I don't want to die. Once Panda knows the location, he will rush to the fifth floor underground alone. I want to avoid that too. Because I do not want to be left alone here. He is Panda, but he's more like a human than me. But because he is Panda, he is not familiar with Shibuya. He's totally unaware of how close we are to the fifth floor underground. I'll take a look over there. Okay, check carefully. Next, I'll pretend to be lost in the station. Those people sealed Gojo. Moreover, I've noticed intermittent strong cursed energy. How am I supposed to proceed? Ridiculous. Are you Jujutsu Sorcerers from the high school? Surrender. If possible, I don't want to kill sorcerers. Panda. There are three people behind us. There might be more hiding. I don't want to be killed either. But I can't just surrender either. Why don't you introduce yourselves? Make it long, if possible. Dragging this out will only disadvantage me. I have to finish it quickly, and I have no other choice. My only advantage is... 10:51 P.M., CAPITAL EXPRESSWAY NO.3, SHIBUYA LINE Principal, we still have cursed corpses here. SHIBUYA TOLL STATION I can stay here alone. You can't. If the enemy finds this place, you will become their primary target. You can heal others with your reverse cursed technique, even Gojo can't do that. If you hadn't come, Ino and Ijichi would have already died. Your accurate judgment is crucial too. If I had waited for Nanami's signal, it would have been too late. And it's important to let Nanami act freely. Didn't you quit smoking? It's because I recalled something from my student days. Miss Ieiri is not far away. I must bear all the risks of the battle by myself, keep the injuries at a controllable level, and end this battle. I limited his route. His speed is like that of Sukuna back then. I can't rely on my eyes, and I have to seize the opportunity. If I miss the opportunity, I will die. If I miss the opportunity, I will die. Damn it. My child... He must be very talented. When he reaches five or six, and I can see whether he possesses cursed techniques, I can sell him to you. But of course, it depends on how much you're willing to offer. If it's an inherited technique, I'll charge 8. If something else, I'll charge 7. If it's an inherited technique, I'll give you 10. Even though that place is a dump to me, he should be able to get by if he's talented. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I'll leave Megumi to you. Hey. What's your name? Fushiguro. Not Zenin? That's great. What's with this guy? It doesn't matter. I should find Miss Ieiri quickly. No. I have to check if Senior Maki and the others are safe. This is more like it. This suits me best. (JUJUTSU KAISEN) You want to assist that guy? You just want to use the opportunity to reclaim Master Geto's body, right? No. The imposter's motive and identity are still unclear. But... If the world falls into chaos, it's the non-sorcerer monkeys who will suffer the most. Survival will necessitate them being strong. Monkeys will be phased out, while sorcerers will increase. Cursed Spirits will gradually disappear. That is the world Master Geto wanted. So I will assist him. I no longer care about the physical body. It's about carrying on a will. Don't make it more complicated. How can we stand by and watch the person we love being manipulated like a zombie? Master Geto's story has come to an end. I will not let anyone tarnish it. You should start acting like an adult, Nanako. What adult? We have nothing left to discuss if you talk like that. Stop, both of you. The last thing Suguru wants to see is us hurting each other. Neither of you are wrong. Let's part ways here. Do what we want to do. Larue, what about you? I will not join either side. Just like Miguel, I only want to make Suguru the king. But never forget. We are family. One day, somewhere, we will gather again for a meal. We've inherited Master Geto's will. Since you are from the high school, there's no need for more words. Are you going to surrender or not? I hate indecisive men. I'm Panda, so she's not talking about me. She makes it so brief, damn it. But then again, they are just a mediocre group. It's too easy. I will just deal with it casually and kill time. New Shadow Style, Evening Moon Sword Drawing. Is this your response? To thank you for the fingers, just come at me. If you can hit me once, I'll work under you. By then, I'll kill all the humans in Shibuya, except for one. Is this all you've got? - It's not over yet! - Cursed spirit. Geto, how many Sukuna's fingers is my power equivalent to? Optimistically, eight or nine. I understand very well. I've known this for a long time. I knew the power gap is huge. But I didn't expect... The moonlight is so bright. Thanks to that, I can clearly see how miserable you are. Come on, try harder. Before I get tired, I will keep playing with you. This place is dangerous now. Run! Where are you going? Listen! Curse users, listen carefully. I'm not sure why. But there are special grades killing each other. They're basically like elephants dancing about on ants. - Leave now. - Let's get it clear. We are ants. Maximum. Meteor. New Shadow Style. Quick Draw. Panda. Let's escape... Forget it. From now on, all humans within a block are not allowed to move until I say okay. If anyone dares to defy, they will be killed without mercy. Not yet. Not yet. Okay. Even Sukuna wouldn't come out unscathed. But you have to hit me first. Why don't you use your domain? I know I can't defeat you with a head-on domain. Because that was how you lost to Satoru Gojo? If you lose too much, you'll become a loser. But I'm just getting excited. Why don't you fight me with your best skills? Open. Is that fire? Aren't Sukuna's techniques "Dismantle" and "Cleave"? I see. I thought you knew. Upon reflection, cursed spirits probably wouldn't know. Don't worry. I won't resort to the trick of revealing the technique. Get ready. Let's decide the winner with power. Sorry, Hanami, Dagon. And Mahito. "Humans" fear "death". But on the other end of death, there are also "humans" standing. To humans, death is a mirror. And Mahito is that mirror. Mahito can become even stronger. That's also why you made him the leader, right? When we are reborn, we will no longer be ourselves. Even so, I really want to meet you all again. Because we are the real humans. What? You want to become a human? I understand what you mean. You don't want to become a human. You just want to attain the status of a human. Even though I understand, I still find it incredibly dull. Crowds of humans, crowds of curses. It is the flock mentality that measures one's value that makes all beings weaker and weaker. You should burn everything. Regardless of gains, losses, or plans, burn them all. Until you reach the realm of Satoru Gojo, and completely abandon your future or race. What you lack is this kind of "hunger" that clings to your ideals. Maybe that's how it is. But, I had fun. Humans, sorcerers, cursed spirits. Compared to those I fought a thousand years ago, you are not bad. Be proud. You are strong. What is this? Who knows. I don't know either. Who are you? I have come to greet you. Lord Sukuna. Are you Uraume? Long time no see. 11:07 P.M., SHIBUYA, DAOGENZAKA 109 Are you kidding? Damn it... Get up, sorcerer! (Episode 40: Thunderclap) I see videos of Coca Cola with Mentos on the internet. Is that real? Why? I think I accidentally had Mentos with Coca Cola as a child, but I don't remember it, so the video must be fake. Okay, eat it. (Next Episode: Thunderclap Part 2) See you next week.