Transcript for Jujutsu Kaisen (2020–…): Season 2, Episode 11  - Seance - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- No good. It's impossible to damage the curtain. Yo-Your punch is quite strong actually. Seriously? In terms of the striking power, this guy is about on par with Mr. Nanami. Doesn't this mean... This "curtain" is very sturdy. We must find a weak point, and try to punch a hole, even if just for a moment. If we can't get in, we won't be able to start doing anything. Why? You're asking why? Listen carefully. This is "a curtain that forbids sorcerers". It's a kind of shield. A shield is to protect oneself from all sides, right? Under these circumstances, the one who casts the "curtain" would usually stay inside it. But... in Harajuku... I see. Not surrounding oneself with the "curtain", but staying outside instead. Though this increases the risk of being detected by others, it also enhances the strength of the "curtain". Is this the "Egg of Columbus"? What egg? But... this completely goes against the basics of barrier technique. I didn't expect that. No wonder Itadori can't break that curtain with a punch. It makes sense now. It can be inferred that the foundation of this "curtain" should be in a quite conspicuous place, right? Taking higher risk of being discovered to further increase the strength? A conspicuous place... 22:01 SHIBUYA CENTRAL TOWER Will the sorcerers notice? In this "curtain", the most conspicuous place must be here, right? I guess so. But even if they find us, they can't do anything. Yes. There are those transfigured humans down there. They probably cannot come up so easily. It's wire. THIS IS QUITE USEFUL This is quite useful. These people, do they already know about this entrusted "curtain"? Great, exactly as we planned. This is the foundation of the "curtain". According to Miss Mei, a barrier technique has already been placed inside that thing. As long as someone channels their cursed energy into it, it should activate. In other words, as long as we destroy this thing, we can deal with the curse users later, right? There are actually three. The "curtain that forbids sorcerers" hasn't been pulled up yet. Where are the other two? In his hand? Fushiguro, undo the "Nue"! Grandson. I understand, Grandma. After all, there's a cute junior now. I have to perform well here. Soon I can be promoted to... A Grade 1 sorcerer. Fushiguro! Where is he? Over there. I didn't catch the moment he hit the ground. The corpse is too clean. Although he's a sorcerer, he did fall from the 41st floor. Get up, you old fox! Geez. Young people don't understand how to take care of the elderly. We can't spend too much time. I don't think it'll take long. (Episode 35: Seance) (JUJUTSU KAISEN Shibuya Incident) Why are you so insistent on me recommending you? With your Cursed Techniques, you'll soon be promoted to Semi Grade 1. I think it's always the most important to be "reasonable". Especially in such a bloody profession as sorcerers. But I'm not very bright. Sometimes I don't know what's the reasonable thing to do. So when I hesitate, I always think "what would Mr. Nanami do". So without your recognition, my promotion to Grade 1 is just a sham. Would you like more drinks? Makgeolli. Auspicious Beasts Summon, number one. "Kaichi". Block. Exorcism "Auspicious Beasts Summon". Hiding one's face to become a medium, and bringing down the power of four auspicious beasts upon oneself. Grandma, that was... Yes, it's really a "coincidence". Number two, "Reiki". Since Mr. Nanami has given me the mission, I just can't leave those two behind. But I can't take these two with me. The best approach is to kill them instantaneously, and go to meet up with the juniors. Adhere to the truth, be strict with oneself, and do not take it lightly. Honestly, compared to dealing with enemies cooperating with this brat somehow tires me out even more. Itadori. No problem. It was a close call. Full of life, with a limitless future. You guys are indeed worth my effort to kill. The Divine Dog's claws should be effective against the special grade as well. I also gave it my all. So, why... Why did we cause no harm to him? Didn't you say it won't take long? NO COMMENT No comment. As I thought, he's not very strong. Yet, he'll protect the old woman at all costs. This is definitely a trap. I'd better end this quickly. The atmosphere suddenly changed. It's enough. Yes, Grandma. You won't succeed! "Zenin Toji". What do you think, Grandson? It's great, Grandma. The best it's ever been. (Jujutsu Kaisen) (Jujutsu Kaisen) DECEMBER 7, 1989 SATORU GOJO WAS BORN Happy birthday, Dad. My gift for you is to show you how I look in uniforms. Isn't it cute? It's the right decision to go to that school. I don't mind what you want to do. But you are too confident. Be careful not to become like your mother. Do you hate my mom? I don't hate her. But after all, she had an affair. I see. Poor daddy. Who are you... Honoka... Where's... my daughter...? I killed her because I needed a corpse to possess and transform. She called her mother's name before dying. I'm sorry. I'm sorry... It broke before I could finish. Please let me out. Shut up. Why... why are you doing this... Because my job is to kill. So I must fully understand the human body first. We... We were once free. Cursed spirits become more active, which exhausted Jujutsu sorcerers. We can earn money easily without any restrictions as long as we properly handle it. We curse users used to live a free and willful life. Satoru Gojo? Yes, the six-eye child born into the Gojo family. A kid? His bounty has already exceeded a hundred million. Oh yes, this is not a commission. The first one gets the prize. Sorry to keep you waiting. The power of the cursed spirit is getting stronger year by year. I immediately understood the reason. It's because of this guy, Satoru Gojo. Just like in an athletic competition, someone suddenly broke an unshakable world record. Or led by a certain figure skater, the number of leaps and spins is increasing. Since the moment Satoru Gojo was born, the balance of the world has changed. What are you looking at, little rascal? We were once free, but we were deprived of freedom in our later years. What a joke. I've been active all my life. Until death, I'm going to trample the weak. This is too addictive. What the hell is going on with this guy? He's not just durable, is he? Most likely it has something to do with his technique. Does he neutralize attacks? No. Hey, Satoru Gojo is already in Shibuya. Why don't you abandon the foundation of "curtain" and run? Your bluffing is too fake. Weren't you guys just yelling "Satoru Gojo has been sealed"? Otherwise, why would we curse users come here? If Gojo were still safe and sound, I would have stayed home to sleep in. Indeed, this guy can't beat Mr. Gojo. Fushiguro, you're pretty bad at lying. So, this guy's technique isn't something as impressive as "neutralization". Don't mind it. Please. You are annoying. If you don't want to fight, then I should kill you. It's coming! "Rabbit Stampede". You, step back. I've seen through his technique. Transformation by exorcism? The old woman is an Itako? No, that's not the problem now. Who on earth is this guy? Is he a famous sorcerer? Just by looking at his stance, he's extremely strong. Number four, "Ryu"... This kind of Shikigami aims to make fake attacks using their number. Are they planning to hide behind the rabbits and land a powerful strike? They're gone. Did they escape? "Max Elephant". What is this? You're quite busy, releasing and retracting all at once. If you're a man, let's decide this straight away. Normally, I'm not the one handling these things. This kid has been amazingly powerful since the start. It scared me quite a lot. Anyway, we can't stop our offensive now. His engine is starting to heat up. Great. It's a deathblow. My technique is "Inverse". When I trigger the technique, the stronger the attack I receive, the weaker it becomes. The weaker the attack, the stronger it will be. So far, anyone who has tried to land a deathblow on me has not been able to escape my counterattack. The more serious you are, the less likely you are to beat me. I have figured out his technique. It's probably "Inverse". That wave of attack we initiated separately indeed hurt him. Even the "Rabbit Stampede" not used for attack also worked. And now he's surrounded by "Rabbit Stampede" and he didn't escape immediately. He can still jump around lively even after falling on the ground. It's probably also because of this technique. So, can we knock him down just by flicking his forehead with our fingers? No, it's not effective if the power is too weak. If it's simply "Inverse", he should have been annihilated by the minuscule forces such as air resistance. MAKES SENSE He wasn't annihilated, which means, the range in which he can activate "Inverse" has limits. And he also adjusts it according to the attack. He activates "Inverse" to protect himself with cursed energy when facing the effect of techniques and slashing attacks. I see. So he can't beat the superhuman Mr. Gojo and he's also not very good at dealing with complicated techniques. In this case, let's do both "at the same time". Hit him at the same time with great force and just the right amount of weak force. Yes, but he mustn't realize that we figured out his technique. We need to keep giving our all to show our power. We start with the weaker toad, and then we launch all the attacks at once. They... When did they notice? However... Don't get carried away with just this bit of skill. Brats! It's just enough. One of them suppressed his own power... You are quite agile. Am I? And then, little Satoru from the Gojo Family was sealed. Hmm, ah, yes. Are you not interested? Hey, it was Geto who told me about this. My bad, sorry! Next episode, Blunt Blade. Remember to watch at a safe distance in a bright environment.