Transcript for Jujutsu Kaisen (2020–…): Season 2, Episode 12  - Dull Knife - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- I'm furious with my own helplessness. 21:44 FUKUTOSHIN, METRO SHIBUYA STATION EXIT NO.13(OUTSIDE THE CURTAIN) This is something that has never happened in my life, and will never happen again. I'm just facing those evils that force me to face reality. How dare you look down on others? (Episode 36: Dull Knife) (JUJUTSU KAISEN Shibuya Incident) You should know that my cursed technique is just manipulating crows, right? TOKYO METRO BETWEEN MEIJI JINGU AND SHIBUYA It's weak, isn't it? That's why I worked hard when I was young so that I could fight without cursed techniques. When I'm beating you up like now, I feel that all my efforts were not in vain. Enough. I won't meddle in this anymore. Please spare me... Quiet. Sister hasn't finished yet. I kept telling myself that the true value of a sorcerer is not in cursed technique. But then, I hit a plateau. Physical training and cursed energy cannot always strengthen the body. Therefore, I had a setback. Because of that setback, I revisited my own cursed technique. This allowed my talent to develop and I become a Grade 1 sorcerer. Applause. Then I am going to kill you. I just wanted to say something to kill time. I'm really sorry! I swear I won't do it again! Please spare my life! Ui Ui. How do you think the value and weight of life should be measured? The answer is whether that life is useful to you. Thank you. And what do you think? I think... A man who hunts life can't answer what scale he uses to measure life. This is why you lost. By the way, for me, the value of life is determined by potential utility. Only the curtain that forbids sorcerers disappeared, right? Didn't I break three with Senior Ino? 22:04 CAPITAL EXPRESSWAY NO.3, SHIBUYA LINE BEFORE CENTRAL TOWER Probably one curtain falls for every three. Or maybe two of them are fake. But now, Jujutsu Sorcerers can move freely in Shibuya. What's left are the curtains trapping Mr. Gojo and ordinary people. I want to interrogate this old man, but he probably won't wake up yet. Let's go to meet senior Ino. Senior Ino! The curtain disappeared. Grandma, what should we do? What... what should we do? Without Satoru Gojo, it couldn't be better. Go down there and kill the sorcerers. My boy. Be careful who you are ordering here. Granny. What's going on? I just summoned the body's information. Summon... I see. Yes. To avoid such accidents, my principle is not to summon the soul's information. I don't understand it very well, but my body is special. His soul must have lost to my body. The soul lost to the body? That is absolutely impossible. You want me to kill the sorcerers... Aren't you also a sorcerer? Mr. Ijichi? He seems to have been attacked while talking on the phone to Nitta. It probably happened after he parted with Fushiguro and others. It could be dangerous as he's all alone. Nobara and Miss Akari go find Mr. Ijichi. We can't use cellphones right now. We need the help of the assistant supervisors. That idiot can't possibly lose. But the situation seems to be getting worse. I'll take care of things here. That old man isn't motivated at all. Bring the wine. Don't mind him. Go quickly. - Yes! - Yes! In case something goes wrong, staying outside the curtain makes it easier to escape. How is senior Ino? Not too good. But he's alive. I'm going to beat them up. I understand your feelings, but don't act rashly. Think about our top priority. Mr. Gojo. The curtain has been lifted. Those guys up there might have already fled. Let's take senior Ino outside first. You take him, and I'll go to the station. Right, this is the best approach. But to be alone in Shibuya right now... Fine, but... "If you die, I will kill you", right? Don't worry. Besides, I have Mechamaru with me. Even though he hasn't responded for a long time. You'd better remember it. See you later. Sister. It seems that the curtain has been lifted. Satoru Gojo owes us a big favor. I get excited just thinking about it. Sooner than I expected. Nitta, stop. 21:40 SHOTO BUNKAMURA STREET (OUTSIDE THE CURTAIN) Girls in suits. That makes me so happy. I kept running into men, so I was so sick of it. Nitta, go hide. It will be over soon. Pretend to hide behind the Bunkamura. Go straight through Tokyu to the other side. From what that guy said, he probably has defeated Mr. Ijichi too. If that's true, we have to hurry over. Okay, be careful, Ms. Kugisaki. Are you whispering? It makes me so curious. She hid away. Watch out! You threw away the weapon? Don't underestimate me. I've seen you before. Those who rely on cursed tools mostly attack in a medium range. I'll attack with all I have. May I ask who you are? BUNKAMURA It can be quite dangerous if you recklessly shoot nails. I can make it even more dangerous. Ouch! What? So she didn't go to hide. Nitta! Shoot! Bastard! The sword he just threw away. Why did it appear from above? What a pity. "Hairpin". Nitta. Well, you really love doing dangerous things, don't you? I hit your chin? Can't you stand up? Can't you stand up? I am talking to you. You have become much stronger than when we last met, haven't you? So I didn't even realize at the beginning. But in this world, just being strong doesn't mean you can win. Especially after my cursed technique is involved. But, I don't quite understand my cursed technique either. Okay. Which one should I kill first? You... My mouth, move! What on earth do you want to do? I need to buy as much time as possible. We're supposed to seal Satoru Gojo. I'm asking what you want. Me? If someone who loves and excels at football was born in a world without football, what could they do? No, I don't know how to explain it. But then again, does it matter? It doesn't matter. After all, I'm happy. As long as I'm happy, that's enough! Don't you think so? Stop it! Then try to stop me. Stop me from committing... I bit my tongue. And I have phlegm in the throat. You can't even stand. Alright. Can I kill the one who isn't wearing a black suit too? (JUJUTSU KAISEN) (JUJUTSU KAISEN) I think he came to Shibuya with Fushiguro... He is Mr. Nanami. Take a look at the situation. How dare you move recklessly? I have had this woman as hostage. She sneaked away. Tell me numbers of your people and arrangement. I don't know. A wall? And I didn't cut him. Tell me numbers of your people and arrangement. I don't... I almost died. If it wasn't for my cursed technique, I would have died. Quickly... Run... Tell me numbers of your people and arrangement. I told you I don't know. Don't even think about it. Do you have to interfere? On the way here, I saw several assistant supervisors were brutally killed. It was you, right? So... Sorry... There is a world of difference. This is a Grade 1 Sorcerer. Let's go find Miss Nitta. It's you. Miss Mei, long time no see. How dare you still speak like this after sending assassins, Geto? Why is he still alive? Did Gojo fail last year? Could it be that Gojo and Geto colluded and resulted in this disturbance? Impossible. Because Gojo could kill all people in the country by himself. He doesn't need helping hands or petty tricks. Compared to Gojo, I initially had higher expectations for you. Your indifferent smile is quite charming. It's such a pity that I have to kill a talent like you. A real pity. This Geto is likely to be an impostor. Miss Mei, I also think it's a pity that I have to hurt my former senior. SPECIAL GRADE DISEASE CURSED SPIRIT SMALLPOX DEITY Cursed spirits manipulation. Am I wrong? Special Grade Disease Cursed Spirit, Smallpox Deity. Last year, I exhausted all the cursed spirits I had. But the quality of the cursed spirits hasn't decreased. To be safe, I think I'll keep the humans on the fifth floor underground. I'll wait for you at the tracks. If you can exorcise this one, I will be your opponent. Domain Expansion. It seems a bit tricky. TOMB I'm locked up. Is this a coffin? Sister! Three, two... It's been many years since I've encountered an opponent who could put my life in danger. Sister. 22:10 INSIDE SHIBUYA STATION Not anyone here. Aren't there a lot of people trapped in the station? So, Mr. Ijichi is okay? I did my best to save him after all. And he originally aimed to be a sorcerer. However, Mr. Gojo's situation didn't reach you guys after all. Maybe we didn't hear it because we went indoor immediately. Even when sealed, he still won't leave us alone. That's his style. Please wait here for rescue. I will move to the fifth floor underground with Zenin and others. - Let me... - No. My level is the minimum threshold for the upcoming battle. You would only get in the way. Stay here and stand by. Yuji Itadori. I want to avenge my brother. Mr. Ijichi, we're here to help you with your work. It's okay. It's really okay. Don't be polite. We're digital natives. Excel and PowerPoint are easy for us. I'm serious. It's really not necessary. (Next Episode: Red Scale) What's "Merging Cells"? Just click it. Please go back.