Transcript for Jujutsu Kaisen (2020–…): Season 2, Episode 17  - Thunderclap - Part 2 - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- Yuji. You are very strong, so go help others. (Episode 41: Thunderclap, Part 2) 11:05 PM, DOGENZAKA, BEFORE SHIBUYA 109 11:05 PM, DOGENZAKA, BEFORE SHIBUYA 109 My Ten Shadows Technique... My Ten Shadows Technique can only get two Divine Dogs at first. If I want to use other Shikigami, I must figure out how to tame them. I can only acquire all ten Shikigami by increasing the amount while taming them. Are you finished? Like the girl just now, you are very young, yet very strong. You're seriously injured, yet you managed not to let me get close. But from the way you're bleeding, even if I don't do anything... The so-called taming can also be conducted by multiple people together. However, a taming carried out by multiple people will become invalid afterwards. In other words, for the sorcerer, this ritual is meaningless. But, even if it's meaningless, it still can be useful. Who's there making such a fuss? I haven't finished yet. So, although the Shikigami can only be used after being tamed, if it's for the sake of taming, I can summon them anytime. Could it be... Among the generations of sorcerers, not a single person has been able to tame this one. Do you know why the Gojo family and the Zenin family don't get along? You're not on good terms? Right, we can't get along at all. It was in the Edo period, or maybe the Keicho era. I forgot. But the leaders of both sides had a duel in a head-to-head contest. Both died in the end. The leader at that time was... Just like me. He had Six Eyes and limitless cursed technique. By the way, the technique of the other side was the same as yours. Ten Shadows Technique. You know what I'm trying to say, right? Even so, I still can't become a sorcerer who can defeat you. The leader at that time must have used it like this too. Furube, Yurayura. Lord Sukuna. I have urgent matters. I see. I will soon regain my freedom. Do not neglect preparation. See you later, Uraume. Yes. I am always waiting for your return. I've been tricked. It's a ritual. He got me in and forcefully began the ritual of two people. Eight-Handled Sword, Divergent Sila Divine General, Mahoraga. See you later. Okay. Sorry, Itadori. Hey, jerk. I'm going to die first. You just keep at it. Hold on. What kind of joke is this? Damn it. Get up, sorcerer! The technique of curse user Haruta Shigemo is to erase the tiny miracles in daily life from memory and store them. The stored miracles will manifest as patterns around his eyes and be released in a critical situation. But he does not know this. Apparent death? I see. It seems I did right by saving this trash. Megumi Fushiguro probably wanted to die with him, so he got him into the exorcism ritual. Once he dies, the ritual will end. And Megumi Fushiguro will also die. You can't die. I still have work for you. Well... I... Shut up. In order to save Megumi Fushiguro's life, the Shikigami must be taken down by me, an outsider. Make it appear as if the exorcism ritual never happened. Then let me have a taste. (JUJUTSU KAISEN) "Dismantle". Is that the Sword of Extermination specifically for battling cursed spirits? It's like the reverse cursed technique and carries positive energy. If I were a cursed spirit, I would have vanished with the first strike. Tastes terrible. Come on! It seems to have done something. The feeling of hit was strange. Here again. Cursed energy. You're really something. You can see my technique, right? As expected, it's something similar to Yamata no Orochi. It saw through my slash and my attack containing cursed energy. Both happened after that magic circle rotated. Furu's Incantation and that magic circle represent a complete cycle and harmony. From this, I infer that the Shikigami's ability is able to adapt to all phenomena. That is, the strongest slow punch. If it were me back then, perhaps I would have already been defeated. Megumi Fushiguro, you've fascinated me. Domain Expansion. Malevolent Shrine. Sukuna's Domain "Malevolent Shrine" is unlike other domains. It does not separate space with a barrier or close the barrier, but makes the Innate Domain visible. It's like not using a canvas, but rather painting directly in the sky. An unimaginable skill. Besides, with binding vow on the escape route for the opponent, it increases the range of guaranteed hit to a maximum radius of 200 meters. Considering the effect would affect Megumi Fushiguro, Sukuna has reduced the range to a radius of 140 meters on the ground. How is it? No, no signal. Me either. But I don't think we need to be too worried. Wasn't there someone with a loudspeaker? Sukuna's slash attack has two types. Within the guaranteed hit range, "Cleave" is used against those with cursed energy, while "Dismantle" is used against those without cursed energy. Before "Malevolent Shrine" disappears, there will be an endless series of attacks. This is the only way to break Mahoraga. Use a technique alien to the opponent and kill him before he can adapt. "Cleave" fits this requirement. But if he adapts to the act of "slash", instead of "Dismantle", it will be a different story. The regeneration of Mahoraga is about to end. "Open". What are you looking at? Get lost. Well... I'll excuse myself then. I'm indeed very lucky. Today, I've escaped death again. The miracles Shigemo stored have been exhausted during his battle with Nanami Kento. It's almost time. Fushiguro. I just saw Itadori for a moment. No, 11:14 P.M., DOGENZAKA, BEFORE SHIBUYA 109 was it Sukuna? 11:14 P.M., DOGENZAKA, BEFORE SHIBUYA 109 Kid. You just savor it. Die. Only I should die. Die. Die now. I have to go. I must fight. If this continues... (JUJUTSU KAISEN Shibuya Incident) (JUJUTSU KAISEN Shibuya Incident) I'm nothing but a murderer. (JUJUTSU KAISEN Shibuya Incident) Things are getting out of hand. Let's count to calm down. One... two... three... nine. Five, seven. (Next Episode: Right and Wrong) Beware of me turning into a polar bear if you don't watch. (Next Episode: Right and Wrong) Have you turned out to be a beast?