Transcript for Reason (2018) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Science became influential in the world about 500 years ago The history of religion in India is over 5000 years old Our Constitution states it is a duty of every Indian citizen to promote scientific temperament There's a reason behind everything There's no God, divinity or luck attached to it In our country we're told... You'are from a backward caste you won't understand much If you're a Dalit you won't understand anything If you're a woman you have no right to education we don't know the reasons or everything in the world Like we don't know the cause of cancer But scientific temperament is always humble It believes... it must keep searching for the truth Unlike religion it doesn't rely on any ultimate Truth but on an ongoing search for truth Dr. Narendra Dabholkar Assassinated 4 August 20, 2013 The battle between faith and reason is as old as humanity Everywhere priest and kings proclaimed their divinity In the Indian region Brahmin priest and warrior kings created a brutal caste divide that survives to the present day. Division was a boon for British colonialist After the first war of independence in 1857 when Hindus and Muslim united and almost defeated the British divide and rule, and became official policy But emancipatory idea from the enlightenment and rationalist, humanist traditions dating back to the Buddha kindled aspiration for freedom. In 1885 the Indian National Congress was born With the arrival of Mohandas Gandhi workers and peasents Hindus and Muslims joined the fray Caste privilege came under attack by reformers like Mahatma Phule and later Dr. Ambedkar. Socialist ideas from the French and Russian revolution were also in the air For the princy classes and religious elites, the alarm bells were ringing With British approval they posed religio-nationalist challenge to the growing independence movement In 1906 Muslim League was found followed by two Brahmin led body The Hindu Mahasabha and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, The RSS All three sided with the British during 1942 Quit India movement All three agreed that Hindus and Muslims could not coexist in a single secular nation The British in turn allowing only Muslims with property to vote on the question of Pakistan ensured the partition of India Yet in 1947 even after the bloodbath of partition both India and Pakistan emerged as secular states. It took an another world power in 1970s to help create their religious nation. Islamic jihad had become a tool to fight communism. In India, the attempt to dismantle secularism began in 1948 with the murder of Mahatma Gandhi His upper caste killers described the deed as a slaying of the demon It is still a work in progress In Pune on Tuesday as he was on his morning walk two men on a motorcycle shot Dabholkar dead Police suspect some Hindu groups in the Dabholkar murder Satara Novemeber, 2015 This is our old house Dr. Shaila Dabholkar My in-laws came tolive here 90 years ago I began a clinic downstairs where i still practice I'm from Karnataka I was content never thought of marriage All i knew is that i wanted to work Then my mother's'friend mentioned her brother-in-law So me and Doctor met in this very hall where were standing and then we talked What was the first thing this great man asked me ? Do you know how to do a caesarean operation ? I was baffled Was i here to meet a suitor or give a job interview ? He said that after the marniage you alone willl have to earn as i want to work in a movement I wasn't even asked what I wanted So I told my mother right away God has yet to create a wife for such a man I will not marry him The marriage fell through A year passed I searched for a man with idealism I couldn't find an idealist Sorry my mistake, could you repeat? It's okay You know how it is now ..anything for Doctor Give me a minute So a year went by Doctor hadn't married either So our marraige was registered and we both came to live here The first 17 years of ANiS (Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti) are significant. That was when Doctor learnt about himself. To destroy casteismn... he began a movement to demand equal drinking water rights in Nagpur there was a group fighting superstition Doctor wrote a book After deep penance i got divine powers This rod can also go through my tongue This rod can also go through the tongue of any one of you... We don't put a rod through the tongue We put the tongue in the rod Sri Satya Saibaba emits gold (Posted by devotees) Three years after Dr. Dabhlkar's murder A gold chain This is a plastic thumb I had already put the chain in the thumb I put on the thumb and waved my hands like this then slyly took it out to hand it over ANIS (Anti blind fiath movement) Always remember those claiming to do miracles are always crooks and those who believe the are fools and those who don't oppose them are cowards are cowards After this… Doctor started programmes for children using easy language Doctor scoured every corner of Maharashtra Those who joined him on this journey belonged to different caste different religions different religions This brought Doctor unexpected happiness People were drawn to him and the movement progressed Dabholkar started Working on an Anti-Black Magic bill 18 years of relentless struggle came to fruition only after Dabholkar's death Thats our misfortune What blind faith? Who are they to decide what is blind faith? Why do the murders happen? People are bound to get angry if yon upset religious sentimentes... with maligious intent someone is bound to get crazed If I meet a man in this country who says he is religious and behaves ethically out of fear or love for God Im ready to hug such a person ANIS totally respects that But we personally believe ethical behaviour should flow from our own conscience Then he was martyred I went blank for a few hours A lot of people had come to see me I had locked the door and I lay there numb Doctor was our Hero He was hero to the children and to me We spontaneously said We must strengthen the voice of reason Once I gave this slogan with all who had gathered I don't know how i did it was i really conscious or could I grasp what was going on going on I don't remember today But after I gave that slogan I felt a surge of courage My personal pain I won't say I kept my pain aside but I went into a huge stage of denial Doctor would often go on trips and return after many days So my heart kept saying all this is a lie Dr.Narendra Dabholkar.. will come back home and tell everyone that all this is not real the world is beautiful and I'm still alive I went through this kind of denial and this stage of denial helped me to participate in the movement