Transcript for Kaguya-sama: Love is War (2019-2023): Season 1, Episode 7  - Miyuki Shirogane Wants to Work/Kaguya Wants Him to Join In/Kaguya Wants to Control It - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- Love advice? Yes! I am facing a big problem. You are the love expert, so I thought only you could solve this problem. Well, there's no turning back now. I will be with you on this journey until the end. President! Here we go again. I don't think I can deceive him much longer. When did I become a love expert? What are their qualifications to acquire that title? If there is such a qualification test for virgins, then I will take it! Giving advice to someone who has a girlfriend is not a joke. But because he asked me, I'm going to simply listen to him. Is that Kashiwagi's boyfriend? I thought they were getting along well by doing charity work. What do you need advice for? Yes. The thing is... I would like to hold hands with Kashiwagi. You know, it's been a month since we started dating, and I can't wait to do the things that couples normally do. That's why I want to ask, President. How do you hold hands with a girl? Why don't you just get advice from your friends? Isn't this just bragging that you have someone? He said he wanted a love advice, but isn't he just bragging about her? Even the president, who is so generous, will get angry at this. I see. What's with the face of a Buddha? At least he is speaking of normal things. Holding hands and other things, it's like the ABC of love. Even I can handle that. The ABC of love. When people say they are a couple, the implication about the depth of the relationship changes greatly. The letters ABC are a barometer that is used to measure that depth. A is kissing, B is touching, C shows how much the relationship has progressed. He is a beginner who decided to climb the mountain of this ABC. In that note, he is not that different from Shirogane. Okay. Holding hands is simple. Sailing on a cruiser towards the horizon, while watching the sunset, let your fingertips brush against hers until she notices it, then you smile at her, and, finally, grab her hand. That's a high bar. But that sounds nice. So that's how the president thinks. But I don't have the money to rent a cruiser. I see. Then, how about landing a part-time job? A part-time job? Yes, part-time jobs are good. You'll only realize how good tap water is after you finish all of your work. I'm telling you, it's as tasty as a cola. Why don't he just drink a cola, then? -The president looks like a workaholic. -I'm not saying it should be luxurious. If it's small, you can rent it for 10,000 yen. But don't you need a license for boats? A driver's license for small boats is okay. You can get this easily, so I recommend getting one. He has one? Amazing! As expected of you, President. If you go to the training institute, you will get it in three days, and the fee would be less than 100,000 yen. But 100,000 yen is a lot of money. Then get a part-time job! Why is he so obsessed with him getting a part-time job? That scenario sounds good for sure, but I was thinking of something simpler. My hands tend to sweat a lot. I'm scared to hold her hand when mine are so sweaty. In short, you're experiencing excessive sweating on your palm! I don't know, but that's probably it. Tell him to get a proper consultation! I think that you need to undergo an operation. The operation you need costs around 100,000 yen! So get a part-time job! TODAY OKINAWA, OGASAWARA Why do you want him to work so badly? Instead of your making your hands sweat, having your forehead sweat because of work is more constructive. That's too much! It's final, then. I need a part-time job in order to hold hands with her. That's wrong! It's not necessary at all! As it happens, at the place where I work, they're in need of workers for this coming summer vacation. How about inquiring there? President. Don't worry about it, I will go with you. The first job can be hard... -Notice that there is a basic problem. -...so I will support you! The fees for the boat, the license, and the surgery are about 200,000 yen. The job pays 5,000 yen an hour, so for five hours a day, you would get it if you work for 40 days. You're going to have a fun summer vacation! I... suppose? This is bad. Just like that, the president's summer vacation will be full. All of the plans I made for this coming summer vacation will be all put to waste. About the interview... Wait a second! The color of her magnifying glass is pink. This is what you call a real colored glass! I summon the Love Detective! Secretary Fujiwara and Shinomiya? I won't allow you to talk about romance without me. Shinomiya. It's not what you think. I'm not an idiot. Somehow, she got caught up. Hey, what kind of advice are you giving? Nothing at all. He was asking about holding hands with his girlfriend. I see. Can't he just hold hands with her? What is there to worry about? No. The problem is, there are tough psychological hardships involve. Like his sweaty palms. Just when I had a feeling you were talking about romance. Is that how men give love advice? It's cute, isn't it? Are you saying there's nothing to worry about? There's nothing else to do except doing your best! Doing your best? That's vague. That's not vague! Getting nervous, hands are sweating, and feeling embarrassed, nevertheless, you... Despite all that, you should still try and hold hands with her. Isn't that nice, huh? If you don't try your best and just hold her hands, then it's no fun. Skipping the hard part is fundamentally wrong. Right? Please reflect hard on it! I see. What I was lacking was the genuine effort. Is it okay to just try? Then a part-time job... Is not necessary! That can't be true. I will do my best! Well, it's not like I've held hands with a guy... The following day... he managed to hold hands with Kashiwagi while on a date. At the very least, I'm happy we could preserve his summer vacation intact. Today's result, Shirogane lost. There's no way Shinomiya would have a part-time job, right? He might as well have invited me. Club activities are so worthless. Club activities are important. It helps you concentrate on something, and it also develops your mind and body... No. I understand that clubs are important. If there were no clubs, young people would be free to indulge in mischief. They would end up in protective custody, suspension, having their families ruined. In the end, people would end up getting pregnant and start raising money. Club activities have also become a plausible reason to keep emotionally immature children away from all that. I never said that. However, that aspect of the clubs is indeed a fact. Club activities. There are two pyramids at the Shuchiin Academy. The first one is the pyramid based on parentage. At the Shuchiin Academy, 99 percent of the students are sons and daughters of wealthy people. That generates a power balance, which is called the lineage hierarchy. Then there is this other pyramid. The caste of club activities. Just by being part of a sports club, you get really popular regardless of your talent. Compared to this absurdity, people who aren't club members or who are in cultural clubs have a strong loser's complex that it can't be put into words. I have no problem with people who do it passionately. But the majority are just pretending to be involved in such clubs in order to make friends. Are they really that cold? What are they enjoying? They should be more serious about it. Seriously... Why don't they all just die? Damn it. He started hating on the youngsters again. I need to bring the conversation back to the point. Well, just let them be. About the budget for the clubs. We are in an economic slump and the donations have been declining. We need to cut from the budget where we can. I would like your opinion as our accountant. I see. I will think about it as I did as an accountant for my father's company. I have to say that this budget covers a lot of unnecessary things. We should cut drastically from the budget of the football club. Okay. Why would we do that? A lot of those people have girlfriends. That's not a reason! We could also cut the budgets for basketball and baseball clubs for the same reason. Let's cut 50,000 yen for each couple. That's a heavy tax! Happiness should be the first thing to be taxed. The happiness tax. Not even a tyrant would tax happiness. You are totally holding a grudge. Yes, I do. But do you really consider it as evil? It's evil. It's really evil! You don't understand, President. You don't get my feelings. Hey, you don't have a match next Sunday, right? Let's go on a date. It's been a while since our last. I'm sorry, I have practice on that day, too. What? You have been practicing all the time lately. I'm sorry. The championship is coming soon. I understand that, but... I am dedicating my life to football now. That's cool! Why are you crying? I don't mind them having girlfriends. After such a long time, I don't feel anything about it anymore. But if you have a girlfriend, date her! Why are they training? They have a precious girlfriend. What could be more important than a girlfriend? I don't even have anything. Hey, you are really good with computers. Everybody says that to geeks. Don't you want to join a club like that? I don't think I could do that as well as the student council. Well, Shinomiya and Secretary Fujiwara have their own clubs. It's not like it's impossible. Which clubs are they members of? Fujiwara is a member of board games club. She looks like someone who would enjoy that. While Shinomiya is doing Japanese archery. Japanese archery? That really suits her. What do you mean? When it comes to archery, if you have large breasts, sometimes they get caught in the string. But if they're as big as Shinomiya's, there won't be a problem at all. Because they're just this big. -Ishigami, behind you. -It's just this big! Ishigami! Ishigami! Apparently, it's possible to bind your breasts and make them as large as a D cup. Fujiwara's are definitely bigger than that, so the moment she would do archery, they would float around a lot! Like this! Stop it, Ishigami! Ishigami? SMILE PUNISH I'm glad for you, Ishigami. Fujiwara is kind, so she will definitely forgive you. But aside from Fujiwara, no one will ever forgive you. Do you understand? President, I am going home to write my will. Oh, okay. But don't die. Whether big ones or small ones, I liked this life I have lived. Did you both just come from your clubs? Yes. President, please raise the budget of the board games club. Don't try to bribe me so brazenly. However, I've never been in a club, so I can't understand how you feel. Is that so? Then join... No! If I say that, it would be like telling him that I want us to be in the same club. I... don't really... Then how about joining our club? The board games club? President, the culture clubs' budgets won't be affected much. If you want to inspect the clubs as president, you should enter a sports club where the budget will suffer the biggest change. No, our club is different! We always buy new board games, so we need a lot of budget. What is that? Come! Join my club! No! You can't do that, no. Well, I have a part-time job, so I don't have time to join a club. But this situation is making me feel very nice and popular. I'll let them carry on a while. Today's result, Shirogane won. BECAUSE FOR A SHORT WHILE, HE COULD ABLE TO FEEL HE HAS A HAREM I WANT TO BE POPULAR PSYCHOANALYSIS ROAD Then Pes got my dad's shoe and ran away with it! Then my dad yelled at him, and said, "I am not a bread from Shizuoka!" I laughed so hard that my tummy hurt afterwards. I like to see you laugh, Kaguya. Why are you saying that all of a sudden? Because you haven't smiled in a long time. In middle school, they called you Kaguya, the Ice Princess. It seemed like you were from another world. There was a time like that, right? When you joined the Student Council, you had a bad relationship with the president for a while. Shirogane, don't look at me. What? You looked at me first. It was like being on a bed of nails. There were times like that, weren't there? People were afraid of me and kept their distance, but Fujiwara was the only one who stayed by my side. I should cherish her a little more. It's my dream to see you roaring with laughter someday. I wouldn't lose control of myself like that. That's what you say now. I'm sure you would have laughed if you had seen my dog Pes. It's amazing! Pes's wiener. Is something wrong, Kaguya? I understand. You mean the dog's trick, right? That he was playing with a hot dog, a wiener. I understand perfectly! -But I am surprised to hear this word... -Like when Pes puts his paw in my hand. -...from a nice girl like you. -I know it's kind of normal, but his wiener is really weird! How should I put it? His wiener is awfully inclined to the left. Kaguya? Sorry, I choked from the tea. Oh! What's this? Why can't I stop laughing every time I hear the word "wiener"? Dirty jokes! So far, Kaguya learned from her mistakes and started educating herself about sex. However, when it comes to slang and metaphors that aren't in the textbook, she still has the knowledge level of a middle schooler. Pes is quite sneaky. When he sees food, his wiener gets big. But the rest of the time, it's small. In short, Kaguya is at that phase where kids laugh about words like wiener and boobies. Everyone was once that way, but Kaguya is still catching up! Kaguya? Please stop. If someone sees that I am laughing about a vulgar word, it would shame the Shinomiya family forever. It's my dream to see you roaring with laughter someday. It's too awful that her dreams will come true just by saying the word "wiener." I have to reset my mood this instant! Are you... Wiener. Wiener. Please stop. I'm begging you. You are roaring with laughter, Kaguya. I am so happy! Fujiwara's dream came true. Fujiwara, you will stop now, won't you? There's no way she's stopping now. Just like a parent who wouldn't stop tickling their child when they ask them to. There is no way the overjoyed Fujiwara would stop. This is fun! President? Hello. President. Now, be good, Fujiwara. Don't you dare say it in front of a boy. She doesn't look like she wants to stop. It's all right. I am a young lady. I won't say such a word in front of boys. Not from my mouth, at least. No! There's a hidden meaning behind those words. Hey, President. What is the breed of the dog that looks like a sausage? A sausage? A wiener sausage? She wants to make him say "wiener!" If I heard that word from the president, I would definitely laugh! -I can't let her make him say that. -There was another strange name for it. I need to change the topic, Think. Concentrate and use your brain, Kaguya Shinomiya! -That's right, wiener... -Sausage! That's what you call it in English. -What do you call a Frankfurt sausage? -Wie... A link! That's how they call it in the Kansai prefecture. How about "cheers" in Italian? -Wie... -Salut! It usually meant "health," but now people say it when toasting. What else is there? I can't think of anything! What is it? What's up? I stopped her! Now, I don't have to hear the word "wiener" from his mouth. I escaped trouble. Damn it! I wanted you to say "wiener!" I couldn't do it because Kaguya was interfering! Are you a pervert? I would never say that here. Just what were you thinking? Are you nymphomaniacs? You really are nymphomaniacs! I am not like that, you know! Why... Why did it come to this? Wiener. Please stop! It's too funny! Don't say "wiener" anymore! Fujiwara, how many times do you have to say that to be satisfied? Don't harass me anymore! -It's because you react so funnily... -There's something unspeakable happening. Do you want to try saying it? I would never say such a dirty word! You've already said it many times! One time, two times, it's all the same! No! Wiener. Wiener. Today's result, Fujiwara won. Wiener. Do you have one? Subtitle translation by Maria Carbune