Transcript for Jujutsu Kaisen (2020–…): Season 2, Episode 13  - Red Scale - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- ONE-WAY STREET EXCEPT FOR BICYCLES SHIBUYA POLICE STATION There are so many of them. I can't just watch it happen. But I don't have time to save everyone. Damn. What should I do... The station... Mr. Gojo is right there before me. Spicy cod roe. That voice... -Inumaki! -Salmon. I'll leave it to you! Salmon. Don't move. 22:10 INSIDE SHIBUYA STATION FOR SAFETY REASONS, PLEASE DO NOT RUSH INSIDE THE STATION AUTOMATIC Yuji Itadori. I will avenge my brothers. Convergence. Blood Manipulation, Convergence. This technique compresses blood and condenses it to its limit. The condensed blood is released through a single point. The blood enhanced by cursed energy is shot at supersonic speed. Blood Manipulation secret technique... Its name is... Piercing Blood. A double impact. What a strange technique. I have... a question for you. Did my brothers leave any final words? Your brothers? The two men that you killed. No, nothing. But... They cried. Eso, Kechizu. Just watch. This is... your elder brother! Damn it. He's taking a distance again. His blood beam is too fast. I only have a 50% chance of dodging it. If I guess wrong and get hit on the head, I will die. Then at least... I control the timing of the launch. He's luring me to attack. I am all in. I knew it. This technique is only fast at the beginning. Once I dodge it, I can approach him. Supernova. I was too hasty. It wasn't condensed enough. Damn, this guy... He is really strong. Hey. Hey, what's the situation now? Mechamaru, why didn't you... Saving energy. There is something else I must do... Choso! Is it Blood Manipulation? You know it? Kamo uses the same cursed technique. That third-year with narrow eyes? So you... I don't know the weakness of this technique. Blood Manipulation is one of the highly valued techniques passed down through the Kamo Family. Convergence compresses and condenses blood, making Piercing Blood and Blood Edge possible. Whether it's close, mid, or long-range, it's valued for its overall balance. Choso doesn't suffer blood loss, so he has no weakness. Thanks for the useful info... I don't know his weakness, but I have an idea. What is it? Go to the bathroom. The bathroom? Why? I'll explain later. It has only a 10% chance of success. Sorry, but if it fails, just die gracefully. Come on. Dragging out will only make it worse. You'll get killed by him anyway. Idiot. There's only an elevator and bathrooms. I'll catch you no matter where you run off to. What's that sound? He defeated my brothers. An idiot can never do that. And I heard the second voice coming out of nowhere... He's definitely up to something. I have to be careful. What? Aren't you coming over? You are such a coward. Just like your little brothers. I'll kill you! You are all the same. All three of you are full of love for each other, and so easy to manipulate. So far, everything has gone well. Now you have to take a gamble, Yuji Itadori! What a pity. That was your last chance. Now you're the one with no escape. What? Convergence has been lifted?! Blood Manipulation halts the blood's coagulation to increase the technique's effectiveness. Therefore, Choso's blood dissolves in water more easily than others'. In addition, the blood that comes into contact with water is now under osmotic pressure. The red blood cells swell and the cell membranes begin to tear. The blood cells that account for about 45% of blood become uncontrollable. That's why Convergence has been lifted. Mechamaru's plan was right. Now, Choso can no longer control the blood outside his body. Flowing Red Scale, Stack. Choso's combat experience was not enough. He didn't understand what was happening to him. He just accepted reality keeping his cool, and manipulated the blood inside his body. I don't know about the logic. I didn't have time to ask him either. But I'm sure about one thing... I have control here now. I can win. Just when he thought he was bound to win... The blood Choso condensed to its limit while making sure it was not exposed to water, and reinforced by cursed energy... pierced Yuji Itadori's liver. Blood Manipulation, Blood Meteorite. I was too careless. I thought he had no other long-range attacks. What is it? Where was I hit? This is different from the last time I got pierced in the stomach. A vital part is injured. I'll lose. I'll die... I understand my duty now. To enable Fushiguro, Kugisaki, Nanamin, and the other seniors to pass through here and get to Mr. Gojo, I'll take him down even if it means dying. I don't need to be the one to save Mr. Gojo. Three times, only three times. Except for the attacks I blocked, Itadori only hit me three times, yet they've caused this much damage. Blood Meteorite is just hard. It isn't comparable to Piercing Blood in terms of speed and power. I probably couldn't have pierced him if I hadn't caught him off guard. Blood Manipulation doesn't usually solidify blood like with Blood Meteorite. Blood Edge shapes the blood, and increases lethality by rotating it at a high speed. Even those sorcerers of Blood Manipulation are not able to extend their consciousness to all blood vessels. In solidifying the blood, one is at risk of suddenly developing thrombosis. Come on. Choso deems that the risk Yuji Itadori brings greatly outweighs that. A tooth? It was a feint. It's not over yet. I haven't thrown a left-handed punch since the first one. He probably thinks that I can't use it anymore. So I'll use my right hand as a decoy to land... this hit! What is this? The feeling of hitting him... What a pity. You're still breathing? On the other side... go apologize to my brothers. Boring. How can you lose to such an inferior opponent? What is happening... Suddenly, Choso's mind is filled with non-existent memories. Come on. Have a bite, big bro. Why... did you... Found him. He's still alive, right? Yeah. Well... Let's start. -"Mondy." -Monday. -"Tuesday." -Keep it up! -"Wedonesday." -Wednesday. What the heck? Next episode, Sway. Who decided to pronounce it this way? Someone smarter than you, dummy.