Transcript for Stop Making Sense (1984) - full transcript
foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- "Psycho Killer" I can't seem to face up to the facts I'm tense and nervous and I... can't relax. I can't sleep, cause my bed's on fire. Don't touch me I'm a real live wire. Psycho Killer Qu'est-Ce Que c'est? [What is it?] fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa better Run run run run run run run away You start a conversation you can't even finish it. You're talking a lot, but you're not saying anything. When I have nothing to say, my lips are sealed. Say something once, why say it again? Psycho Killer, Qu'est-Ce Que c'est? [What is it?] fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa better Run run run run run run away OH OH OH Psycho Killer, Qu'est-Ce Que c'est? [What is it?] fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa better Run run run run run run away OH OH OH Ce Que j'ai fait, Ce soir-lÃ [What I did that night] Ce qu'elle a dit, Ce soir-lÃ [What she said that night] RÃ©alisant Mon espoir [Making my hope come true] Je me lance vers la gloire... okay [I hurl myself toward glory] YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA We are vain and we are blind I hate people when they're not polite Psycho Killer, Qu'est-Ce Que c'est? [What is it?] fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa better Run run run run run run away OH OH OH Thank you. "Heaven" Everyone is trying to get to the bar. The name of the bar, the bar is called Heaven. The band in Heaven they play my favorite song. They play it one more time, they play it all night long. Oh heaven, heaven is a place. A place where nothing, nothing ever happens. Heaven... Heaven is a place. A place where nothing, nothing ever happens. There is a party, everyone is there. Everyone will leave at exactly the same time. When this partys over it will start again. It would not be any different, it would be exactly the same. Oh heaven. Heaven is a place. A place where nothing, nothing ever happens. When this kiss is over it will start again. It will not be any different, it will be exactly the same. It's hard to imagine that nothing at all could be so exciting, could be this much fun. Oh, heaven, heaven is a place. A place where nothing, nothing ever happens. Heaven, heaven is a place. A place where nothing, nothing ever happens. "Thank You For Sending Me An Angel" Oh, Oh, baby you can walk, you can talk just like me. You can walk, you can talk just like me. You can look, tell me what you see. You can look, you won't see nothing like me if you look around the world. Oh oh oh oh oh... baby you can walk, you can talk just like me. With a little practice, you can walk, you can talk just like me. If that's what you wanna do. Well, you can look! You'll walk in circles around me. But first, I'll walk in circles 'round you. But first, I'll walk around the world. I'm walking 'round the world I ... you can. Woah, I'll walk in circles around you. But first, show me what you can do. "Found a Job" "Damn that television... what a bad picture!" "Don't get upset, it's not a major disaster." "There's nothing on tonight," he said, "I don't know what's the matter!" "Nothing's ever on", she said, "so... I don't know why you bother." We've heard this little scene, we've heard it many times. People fighting over little things, and wasting precious time. They might be better off... I think the way it seems to me. Making up their own shows, which might be better than T.V. Judy's in the bedroom, inventing situations. Bob is on the street today, scouting up locations. They've enlisted all their family. They've enlisted all their friends. It helped saved their relationship, and made it work again... Their show gets real high ratings, they think they have a hit. There might even be a spinoff, but they're not sure 'bout that. So think of Bob and Judy. They're happy as can be. Inventing situations, putting them on T.V. Judy's in the bedroom, inventing situations, Bob is on the street today, he's scouting up locations. They've enlisted all their family. They've enlisted all their friends. It helped save their relationship. And made it work again ... Hit it! "Slippery People" What about the time? You were fallin' over. Fell on your face. You must be having fun Walk lightly! Think of a time. You'd best believe. This thing is real Put away that gun. This part is simple You try to recognize what is in your mind God help us! Help us loose our minds These slippery people, help us understand What's the matter with him? (He's alright!) How do ya know? (The lord won't mind..) Don't know no games (He's alright!) Love from the bottom to the top! Turn like a wheel! (He's alright!) See for yourself! (The lord won't mind..) We're gonna move! (Right now!) Turn like a wheel inside a wheel! I remember when Sittin' in the tub Pulled out the plug The water was runnin' out Cool down Stop acting crazy They're gonna leave And we'll be on our own Seven times five They were living creatures Watch 'em come to life Right before your eyes Backsliding! How do you do? These slippery people Gonna see you through What's the matter with him? (He's alright!) How do you know? (The lord won't mind..) Don't you know me? (He's alright!) Love from the bottom to the top! Turn like a wheel! (He's alright!) See for yourself! (The lord won't mind..) We're gonna move! (Right now!) Turn like a wheel inside a wheel! What's the matter with him? (He's alright!) How do you know?(The lord won't mind) Don't play no games (He's alright) Alright! Love from the bottom to the top! Now turn like a wheel! (He's alright) See for yourself. (The Lord won't mind) We're gonna move (Right now) Turn like a wheel inside a wheel What's the matter with him? (He's alright) How do you know? (The lord won't mind) Don't play no games. (He's alright) Love from the bottom to the top Turn like a wheel. (He's alright) See for yourself (The Lord won't mind) We're gonna move (Right now) Turn like a wheel inside a wheel He's alright Love from the bottom Alright! Love from the bottom to the top Alright! The love from the bottom Right now! Turn like a wheel inside a wheel "Burning Down the House" Watch out, you might get what you're after Cool baby, strange, but not a stranger I'm an ordinary guy Burning down the house Hold tight, wait 'til the party's over Hold tight, we're in for nasty weather There has got to be a way Burning down the house Here's your ticket, pack your bags Time for jumpin' overboard Transportation is here Close enough, but not too far Maybe you know where you are Fightin' fire with fire All wet, hey you might need a raincoat Shakedown, dreams walking in broad daylight Three hundred sixty five degrees Burning down the house It was once upon a place Sometimes I listen to myself Gonna come in first place People on their way to work Say baby what did you expect Gonna burst into flame Go ahead My house s'out of the ordinary That's right, don't want to hurt nobody Some things sure can sweep me off my feet Burning down the house No visible means of support And you have not seen nothing yet Everything's stuck together I don't know what you expect Staring into the TV set Fighting fire with fire Ah! "Life During Wartime" Heard of a van that is loaded with weapons, packed up and ready to go Heard of some gravesites, out by the highway, A place where nobody knows The sound of gunfire, off in the distance I'm getting used to it now Lived in a brownstone, I lived in the ghetto I've lived all over this town This ain't no party, this ain't no disco This ain't no fooling around No time for dancing, or lovey dovey I ain't got time for that now Transmit the message, to the receiver Hope for an answer some day I got three passports, couple of visas Don't even know my real name High on a hillside, trucks are loading Everything's ready to roll I sleep in the daytime, I work in the nighttime I might not ever get home This ain't no party, this ain't no disco This ain't no fooling around This ain't no Mudd club, or C. B. G. B. I ain't got time for that now This ain't no party, this ain't no disco This ain't no fooling around No time for dancing, or lovey dovey I ain't got time for that now Heard about Houston? Heard about Detroit? Heard about Pittsburgh, PA? You oughta know not to stand by the window Somebody see you up there I got some groceries, some peanut butter To last a couple of days But I ain't got no speakers Ain't got no headphones Ain't got no records to play Why stay in college? Why go to night school? Gonna be different this time? Can't write a letter, I can't send a postcard I can't write nothing at all This ain't no party, this ain't no disco This ain't no fooling around I'd love you hold you, I'd like to kiss you I ain't got no time for that now Trouble in transit, got through the roadblock We blended in with the crowd We got computers, we're tapping phone lines I know that ain't allowed We dress like students, we dress like housewives or in a suit and a tie I changed my hairstyle so many times now I don't know what I look like! You make me shiver, I feel so tender We make a pretty good team Don't get exhausted, I'll do some driving You ought to get you some sleep Burned all my notebooks, what good are notebooks? They won't help me survive My chest is aching, and it burns like a furnace the burning keeps me alive "Making Flippy Floppy" Nothing can come between us Nothin gets you down Nothing strikes your fancy Nothing turns you on You don't have to wait for more instructions No one makes a monkey out of me We lie on our backs, feet in the air Rest and relaxation, rocket to my brain Snap into position Bounce till you ache Step out of line And you end up in jail Doctor Doctor We have nothing in our pockets We continue But we have nothing left to offer Faces pressed against the window Hey! they are just my friends Check this out don't be slick Break our backs it goes like this... We are born without eyesight We are born without sin And our mama protects us From the cold and the rain We're in no hurry sugar and spice We sing in the darkness And we open our eyes (Open up) I can't believe it And people are strange Our president's crazy Did you hear what he said Business and pleasure Lie right to your face Divide it in sections And then give it away There are no big secrets Don't believe what you read We have great big bodies We got great big heads Run-a-run-a-run it all together Check it out - still don't make no sense Makin' flippy floppy Tryin' to do my best Lock the door We kill the beast Kill it! "Swamp" Now let me tell you a story The devil he has a plan A bag of bones in his pocket Got anything you want No dust and no rocks The whole thing is over All these beauties in solid motion All those beauties, gonna swallow you up Let's go Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Hi One time too many, too far to go I, we come to take you home Woo hoo And when they split those atoms It's hotter than the sun Blood is a special substance They gonna pray for that man So wake up young lovers The whole thing is over Watch out, touch monkeys All that blood is gonna swallow you whole Let's go Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Hi So soft, hard feelings No tricks, lets go I, we come to take you home Woo hoo How many people do you think I am? Pretend I am somebody else You can pretend I'm and old millionaire A millionaire washing his hands Rattle them bones, dreams that stick out, A medical chart on the wall Soft violins, hands touch your throat Everyone wants to explode Now when your hands get dirty Nobody knows you at all Don't have a window to slip out of Lights on, nobody home Click click, see ya later Beta beta, no time to rest Pika pika, risky business All that blood will never cover that mess Let’s go Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Hi Once more Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Hi "What a Day That Was" Well, I'm dressed up so nice And I'm doin' my best And I'm startin' over I'm startin' over in another place Lemme tell you a story Big chief with a golden crown He's got rings on his fingers And then he walks up, up to the throne He's makin' shapes with his hands And don't you dare sit back Now don't you dare sit down And don't you dare speak up! Oh and on the first day, we had everything we could stand Oh who could've asked for more? And on the second day, we had nothing else left to do Oh what a day that was. Well there are 50,000 beggars Roaming in the streets And they have lost all their possessions They have nothing left to eat Down come the bolts of lightning Start an electrical storm Starts a chain reaction Go pull a fire alarm I said that I'm dreaming of a city It was my own invention I put the wheels in motion A time for big decisions, ho ho And on the first day, we had everything we could stand Oh and then we let it fall And on the second day, there was nothing else left to do Oh what a day that was Oh... Oh... Oh a day that was… Oh oh ho ho And that's the way it goes There's a million way, to get things done There's a million ways, to make things work out. Well I'm going right through And the light came down And they're roundin' 'em up from all over town They're movin' forward & backwards, They're movin' backwards & front And they're enjoying themselves Moving in every direction And if you feel like you're in a whirlpool You feel like going home You feel like talking to someone Who knows the differences between right and wrong And on the first day, we had everything we could stand Oh and then we let it fall And on the second day, there was nothing else left at all Oh what a day that was. Oh, oh... We’re going boom boom boom And that’s the way we live And in a great big room And that’s the way we live We’re going boom boom boom, And that’s the way we live And in a great big room And that's the way we live. We're going' boom boom boom That's the way we live And in a great big room And that's the way we live We're going' boom boom boom That's the way we live And in a great big room And that's the way we live "This Must Be the Place (Naive Melody)" Home is where I want to be Pick me up and turn me round I feel numb, born with a weak heart I guess I must be having fun The less we say about it the better Make it up as we go along Feet on the ground head in the sky It's okay, I know nothing's wrong, nothing Hi oh! I got plenty of time Hi oh! you got light in your eyes And you're standing here beside me I love the passing of time Never for money, always for love Cover up and say goodnight, say goodnight Home, is where I want to be But I guess I'm already there I come home, she lifted up her wings I guess that this must be the place I can't tell one from another Did I find you, or you find me? There was a time before we were born If someone asks, this is where I'll be, where I'll be. Hi oh! We drift in and out Hi oh! Sing into my mouth Out of all those kinds of people You got a face with a view I'm just an animal looking for a home and Share the same space for a minute or two And you love me till my heart stops Love me till I'm dead Eyes that light up Eyes look through you Cover up the blank spots Hit me on the head I got ooh! "Once in a Lifetime" And you may find yourself living in a shotgun shack And you may find yourself in another part of the world And you may find yourself behind the wheel of a large automobile And you may find yourself in a beautiful house, with a beautiful wife And you may ask yourself, "Well...How did I get here?" Letting the days go by, let the water hold me down Letting the days go by, water flowing underground Into the blue again, after the money's gone Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground. And you may ask yourself, how do I work this? And you may ask yourself, where is that large automobile? And you may tell yourself, this is not my beautiful house! And you may tell yourself, this is not my beautiful wife! Letting the days go by, let the water hold me down Letting the days go by, water flowing underground Into the blue again, after the money's gone Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground. Same as it ever was, same as it ever was, same as it ever was... Same as it ever was, same as it ever was, same as it ever was... Same as it ever was, same as it ever was Water dissolving...and water removing There is water at the bottom of the ocean Remove the water, carry the water Remove the water from the bottom of the ocean! Letting the days go by, let the water hold me down Letting the days go by, water flowing underground Into the blue again, after the money's gone Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground. Into the blue again, into the silent water Under the rocks and stones, there is water underground Letting the days go by, into the silent water Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground And you may ask yourself, "What is that beautiful house?" And you may ask yourself, "Where does that highway lead to?" And you may ask yourself, "Am I right, am I wrong?" And you may say to yourself, "My God! What have I done?" Letting the days go by, let the water hold me down Letting the days go by, water flowing underground Into the blue again, after the money's gone Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground. Into the blue again, into the silent water Under the rocks and stones, there is water underground Letting the days go by, into the silent water Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground Same as it ever was, same as it ever was, same as it ever was... Same as it ever was, same as it ever was, same as it ever was... Same as it ever was, same as it ever was. Time isn't holding us, time isn't after us Time isn't holding us, time doesn't hold you back Time isn't holding us, time isn't after us Time isn't holding us, rip it up... Letting the days go by Letting the days go by Letting the days go by Once in a lifetime (Y’see, what kind of good boy?) Letting the days go by… Letting the days go by… Letting the days go by… Once in a lifetime… Coming at you right now, ladies and gentlemen, the Tom Tom club. So check it out! "Genius of Love" What you gonna do when you get out of jail? I'm gonna have some fun What do you consider fun? Fun, nasty fun The girls can do it too, y'all. I'm in heaven With my boyfriend, my laughing boyfriend There's no beginning and there is no end Time isn’t present in that dimension (Sure ain't) He'll take my arm When were walking', rolling and rocking It's one time I'm glad I'm not a man Feels like I'm dreaming, but I'm not sleeping (Ha ha ha ha) (Check it out!) All the weekend Boyfriend was missing I surely miss him Having him hold me in his warm arms We went insane when we took cocaine Stepping in a rhythm to a Kurtis Blow Who needs to think when your feet just go With a hippie-the-hop and a hippie-the-hoe Who needs to think when your feet just go "Bohannon, Bohannon, Bohannon, Bohannon" Who needs to think when your feet just go "Bohannon, Bohannon, Bohannon, Bohannon" James Brown, James Brown James Brown, James Brown If you see him Please remind him, unhappy boyfriend Well he's the genius of love He's got a greater depth of feeling Well he's the genius of love He's so deep. "Girlfriend is Better" I... Who took the money? Who took the money away? And I... it's always showtime Here at the edge of the stage And I... wake up and wonder What was the place, what was the name? We wanna wait, but here we go again I, takes over slowly But doesn't last very long And I... no need to worry Everything's under control O U T! But no hard feelings What do you know? Take you away We're being taken for a ride again I got a girlfriend that's better than that She has the smoke in her eyes She's moving up, going right thru my heart She's gonna give me surprise Better than this, know that it's right I think you can if you like I got a girlfriend with bows in her hair And nothing is better than that, is it? Down, down in the basement We hear the sound of machines And I... I'm driving in circles Come to my senses sometimes Why, why, why, why start it over? Nothing was lost, everything’s free I don't care how impossible it seems Somebody calls you but you cannot hear Get closer to be far away Only one look and that's all that it takes Maybe that's all that we need All that it takes, all that it takes, All that it takes, all that it takes I got a girlfriend that's better than that She goes wherever she likes (There she goes...) I got a girlfriend that's better than that Now everyone's getting involved As we get older and stop making sense You won't find her waiting long Stop making sense, stop making sense Stop making sense, making sense I got a girlfriend that's better than that And nothing is better that this (Oh, is it?) "Take Me to the River" Take me to the river, drop me in the water Take me to the river, drop me in the water, water I don’t know why I love her like I do All your troubles you put me through Take my money, my cigarettes I haven’t seen the worst of it yet I wanna know can you tell me I love to stay Take me to the river, drop me in the water Dip me in the river (Take me to the river) Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water, water) I don’t know why you treat me so bad (Ooh ooh ooh) Think of all the things we could have had (Ooh ooh ooh) Love is an ocean I can’t forget (Ooh ooh ooh) My sweet sixteen I would never regret I wanna know (woo) can you tell me I love to stay Oh oh oh, take me to the river (Take me to the river) Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water) Take me in the river (Take me to the river) Push me in the water (Drop me in the water, water) Hug me, squeeze me, love me, tease me Till I can’t, till I can’t, I can’t take no more of it Oh oh oh, take me to the river (Take me to the river) Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water) Dip me in the river (Take me to the river) Push me in the water (Drop me in the water, water) Good job, Jerry! Good job, Jerry! Mr. Jones! You ready! Are you ready to rock! C’mon! Let’s go! I don’t know why I love you like I do (Ooh ooh ooh) All the changes that you put me through (Ooh ooh ooh) Sixteen candles there on my wall (Ooh ooh ooh) And here am I the biggest fool of them all I wanna know (oh) can you tell me I love to stay I wanna take me to the river (Take me to the river) Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water) Dip me in the river (Take me to the river) Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water, water) Take me to the river Drop me in the water Take me to the river Drop me in the water, water Take me to the river Drop me in the water Take me to the river Drop me in the water, water I'd like to introduce the band by name. This is Bernie Worrell (keyboards) Jerry Harrison (keyboards, guitar, backing vocals) Ednah Holt (vocals) Lynn Mabry (vocals) Chris Frantz (drums) Steve Scales (percussion) Alex Weir (guitar, vocals) Tina Weymouth (bass, backing vocals) Take me to the river Drop me in the water, water Take me to the river Drop me in the water, water Take me to the river Drop me in the water Take me to the river Drop me in the water, water Take me to the river Drop me in the water Take me to the river Drop me in the water, water Take me to the river Drop me in the water Take me to the river Drop me in the water "Cross-eyed and Painless" Lost my shape Trying' to act casual! Can't stop I might end up in the hospital I'm changing my shape I feel like an accident They're back! To explain their experience Isn't it weird Sounds too obscure to me Wasting away That was their policy I'm ready to leave I push the facts in front of me Facts lost Facts are never what they seem to be There's nothing there! No information left of any kind Lifting my head Looking for danger signs There was a line There was a formula Sharp as a knife Facts cut a hole in us There was a line There was a formula Sharp as a knife Facts cut a hole in us I'm still waiting...I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting...I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting...I'm still waiting... The feeling returns The feeling returns Whenever we close out eyes Lifting my head looking around inside The island of doubt It's like the taste of medicine Working by hindsight Got the message from the oxygen Making a list Find the cost of opportunity Doing it right Facts are useless in emergencies The feeling returns Whenever we close our eyes Lifting my head Looking around inside. Facts are simple and facts are straight Facts are lazy and facts are late Facts all come with points of view Facts don't do what I want them to Facts just twist the truth around Facts are living turned inside out Facts are getting the best of them I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... I'm still waiting... Thank you We'd like to thank our crew Good night.