Transcript for Jujutsu Kaisen (2020–…): Season 2, Episode 5  - Premature Death - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- (JUJUTSU KAISEN Hidden Inventory / Premature Death) ONE YEAR LATER, AUGUST 2007 Here I come! Not bad. What just happened? Did it automatically choose the target for the Cursed Technique? Yes, but to be more accurate, the target of the Cursed Technique is me. I turned the manual control into an automatic mode. Not just the strength of the Cursed Energy, it can also distinguish danger level of objects from their mass, speed, and shape. It would be better if it could also detect poison, but that's still a bit difficult. So I can keep my limitless cursed technique active with minimal resources. If you keep it active all the time, your brain will be burned out. As long as it's within the range of self-replenishment, the reverse cursed technique will continue to operate. Fresh brain will be delivered anytime. I've perfected the shortcut hand signs that I've been practicing. Red and Azure Glow. I've pretty much mastered multiple simultaneous activation of these two. My next task should be domain and long-distance teleportation. If I start from the school and prepare a clear route, I think I can succeed. Shoko, can I borrow the lab rat? Satoru has become the strongest. Suguru, have you lost a little weight? Are you okay? He can complete all tasks by himself. Shoko doesn't go out on dangerous missions. So naturally, I ended up spending more time alone. The hot weather made me a little tired. I'm fine. Have you been eating too much Somen? I was very busy that summer. (Episode 29: Premature Death) Perhaps due to the frequent disasters last year, Cursed Spirits surged like maggots. Exorcising, absorbing. I kept repeating these tasks. Exorcising, absorbing. No one knows the taste of cursed spirits. It's like swallowing a cloth that has wiped vomit. Who am I doing this for? Exorcising, absorbing. Since that day, I've been trying to convince myself that what I saw is nothing special, just well-known abominations. Because I understand this very well, that's why I've chosen to help people as a Jujutsu Sorcerer. I can't waver. I must fulfill my duties as a Jujutsu Sorcerer. Stinking monkeys. Senior Geto. Haibara. Senior, you've worked hard. Would you like something to drink? Oh, how can I? I'll have a Coke. I have to go on a mission to a far-away place tomorrow. Really? Then please bring back some local specialties. Understood. Senior, do you prefer sweet or salty food? Satoru might want some too. You can get something sweet. Understood. Haibara, are you doing well as a Jujutsu Sorcerer? Do you find it hard? Well. I'm not the kind of person who thinks too deeply about these things. I feel great being able to give it my all, and doing what I can. Really? That's true. Are you Geto? What type of woman do you like? May I know who you are? I like girls who eat a lot. Haibara. It's okay, she's not a bad person. I'm quite confident in my judgement of people. Then why are you still sitting next to me? Right. He was just teasing you. I'm off then. Is he your junior? A frank and cute kid. On the contrary, I think as a sorcerer, he should learn to doubt others more. By the way, aren't you going to answer my question? Then you shall answer my question first. Who are you? I'm a Special Grade sorcerer, Tsukumo Yuki. You should understand now. You're that... Good job! Who am I? The one who never takes on missions despite being Special Grade, the waste who is always idling abroad. I hate the High School. SHE'S UPSET She's upset. I'm kidding. However, my ideas indeed conflict with the school. The people here are doing symptomatic treatment. What I want to do is causal treatment. Causal treatment? Not hunting cursed spirits, but creating a world where cursed spirits will never exist. Let me give you a lesson. What are cursed spirits? They are accumulations of humans' cursed energy that has seeped out and solidified. You're correct. Therefore, there are two ways to create a world where cursed spirits do not exist. The first one is to erase all humans' cursed energy. The second is to make all humans able to control their cursed energy. I think the first one is a good idea, and there's even an example. What example? It's someone you are familiar with, Zenin Toji. I've seen many cases where Heavenly Restriction made them become almost like normal people. But he was the only one in the world who had no cursed energy at all. And that's not the only interesting part. Even though Zenin Toji had no cursed energy, he could recognize cursed spirits with his five senses. As he completely abandoned cursed energy, he became different from ordinary people. Moreover, he even gained resistance to curses. He's practically a superhuman. You shouldn't feel ashamed for losing to him. Although I would like to study him, unfortunately, he rejected me. His death is a great loss. There are very few samples of Heavenly Restriction. So, I turned my focus to the second method. To make all humans able to control cursed energy. Did you know? Jujutsu Sorcerers don't produce cursed spirits. It excludes the situation where sorcerers become cursed spirits after death. Compared to non-sorcerers, sorcerers leak very little cursed energy. We have to consider the cursed energy consumption for using techniques and the difference in capacity. But the most crucial part is circulation. A sorcerer's cursed energy circulates continuously within the body. To put it simply, if all humans become Jujutsu Sorcerers, then cursed spirits will not be produced. In that case, why not just eliminate all non-sorcerers? Geto. Your idea is feasible. Wait. What you just said is probably the simplest method. Continuously eliminating non-sorcerers, forcing humans to adapt to the environment for survival and become sorcerers. That's to promote evolution, like birds evolving wings. Using fear and a sense of crisis to make humans evolve. But unfortunately, I'm not that crazy yet. Do you hate non-sorcerers, Geto? I don't know. I used to think that Jujutsu exists to protect non-sorcerers. But lately, this standard close to a value in my heart has started to waver. The dignity of the weak, and the ugliness of the weak. I'm gradually becoming unable to distinguish and accept these. Looking down on non-sorcerers, and denying such thoughts. For the marathon of Jujutsu Sorcerers, the view at the end is too vague. I can't figure out which one is my true thought. Neither is your true thought. You haven't reached that stage yet. Looking down on non-sorcerers, and denying such thoughts are just possibilities you've thought of. Your choice is to make one of them your true thought. I'm leaving. Actually, I also wanted to say hello to Gojo. But it seems I've come at the wrong time. We will all be special grade sorcerers in future, let's be nice to each other. I will pass the message to Satoru. By the way, one last thing. Don't worry about the Star Plasma Vessel. It seemed like there was another Star Plasma Vessel at the time. Or that a new Star Plasma Vessel has been born. Anyway, Tengen has stabilized now. I thought so. AH Ah. I DIDN'T ASK ABOUT HIS TYPE I didn't ask about his type. It should have been an easy mission to defeat a Grade 2 cursed spirit. Damn it. Earth God faith. That was actually a Land God. A Grade 1 case. Nanami, you can take a rest. Satoru took over the mission. Might as well have him take care of all the missions. The marathon of Jujutsu Sorcerers. What if at the end of it are the mountains of bodies of my friends? INVESTIGATION REPORT ON MURDER CASES INVOLVING A STUDENT What's going on here? Isn't it obvious? These two are the cause of the series of incidents. No. INVESTIGATION SUBJECT, TOKYO JUJUTSU HIGH SCHOOL, THIRD GRADE, GETO SUGURU Confirmed the death of 112 residents in the old ▋▋village five days after assigning Geto Suguru These two are psychos. They attacked the villagers with their inexplicable power again and again. I've ruled out the cause of the events. My grandson was almost killed by these two. It's because he... Shut up, you monsters! Your parents were also monsters. - You should have been killed at birth. - It's over. Looking down on non-sorcerers, and denying such thoughts. Which one will become your true thought? Everyone, let's step outside. It's your choice. What? Why? No! TRIAL PENDING, GETO SUGURU ON LARGE Confirmed to be Geto Suguru's cursed spirits manipulation according to the residuals SENTENCED TO DEATH Ah? Don't make me repeat myself. Suguru killed everyone in the village. I heard it loud and clear. That's why I said that. Suguru's hometown has already been deserted. But judging from the bloodstains and residuals, his parents were probably... That's impossible! Satoru. I also don't understand what's going on. EH? HIGH SCHOOLER? Do you need a light? Hi. Aren't you a criminal? What do you want with me? I'm just here to try my luck. I should ask if you are innocent. Unfortunately, no. I should also ask why you did it? Because I want to create a world only for Jujutsu Sorcerers. I don't understand. I'm not a child anymore. I don't expect everyone to understand me. I think it's also quite childish to resign to depravity just because no one can understand you. Gojo, Geto is here. Right, Shinjuku. No way, I don't want to get killed. Explain to me, Suguru. You should have heard from Shoko. That's all there is to it. So, you're going to kill everyone other than Jujutsu Sorcerers? Even your own parents? I can't just give my parents the privilege. Besides, my family is not just them now. That's not what I'm asking. I thought you didn't want to commit pointless murders. I have my reasons, and there is a point. It's for the greater good. No, it's not. You said you want to kill non-sorcerers and create a world only for sorcerers? How is that possible? Doing something that is so petty and absolutely unachievable is pointless! You're really arrogant. If it was you, you could do it, right? Satoru? You can do it, but you're trying to convince others that it's absolutely unachievable. Are you the strongest for being Satoru Gojo? Or are you Satoru Gojo for being the strongest? What are you trying to say? If I could become you, don't you think such an absurd ideal might actually come true? I have decided on my way of life. From now on, I will strive to achieve what I am capable of. If you want to kill me, go ahead. It would also be meaningful. Why didn't you go after him? Are you sure you want to ask me this? No, never mind, it's my fault. Mister, I'm strong, right? Yes, you are unbelievably strong. But, if I'm the only strong one, it doesn't seem to be of much use. I can only save those who are ready to be saved. Wasn't the Star Religious Group forced to disband? The roots of other organizations are the same. It's like you directly took over the entire organization. Would you refuse it? No, it's all fine as long as I can collect curses and money. Are you really going to dress like that? Not bad, right? Bluffing is very important. Master Geto. Watch carefully later. Is everyone here? Branch heads, representative executives, the president, and all other important investors are here. Ladies and gentlemen, sorry to keep you waiting. I'll just say a few words. From this moment on, this organization is mine. The name will also be changed. Please make sure to listen to me from now on. MAJORITY OPPOSED This is really troublesome. Right, Mr. Sonoda, could you please come up to the stage? Yes, you. So, I'll say it again. I hate monkeys. You guys better obey me. This is the true thought I chose. Stinking monkeys. You're Megumi Fushiguro, aren't you? Who are you? And what's with your face? Nothing, I just think you are identical. I'm just talking to myself. Speaking of your father, he came from a sorcerer family called Zenin, but he himself was unbelievably useless. Later he ran away from home and had you. You should be able to see cursed spirits, and you also have cursed energy. You should have noticed your own Cursed Technique more or less. The Zenin Family loves Cursed Techniques. Most people notice their own techniques between the ages of four and six. That's the best time for a deal. Megumi, you are your father's ace to deal with the Zenin Family. It's annoying, isn't it? As for your father, I killed him... It doesn't matter, I don't care what he's doing or where he is. I haven't seen him for years. I can barely remember what he looks like. I've understood the situation after your explanation. Tsumiki's mother hasn't been back for a while either. Megumi is back. Probably because we are no longer useful. The two of them must be living a leisurely life now. Are you really in first grade? Never mind. If you want to know about your father, you can ask me at any time. Oh. I think it's quite interesting. Let me get to the point then. What do you want to do? Do you want to go to the Zenin Family? What will happen to Tsumiki? If I go there, will Tsumiki be happy? This is decisive. No, absolutely not. I can assure you of this. OK. Leave the rest to me. But I might have to make you work a bit harder then. Do your best. You have to become stronger, being strong enough to not be left behind by me. OCTOBER 19, 2018 Mr. Gojo. So you sleep too. Of course, what nonsense are you saying? Mr. Gojo. He's awake. Wait, isn't that chair very expensive? Please don't call us over and then fall asleep here. - Not fair, I'm next! - I'm stuck. It's my turn! - What are you laughing at? - You are not stuck! Get up! Nothing. How do you write "Motto" in Kanji? It's Katakana? Is it a foreign word? NEXT EPISODE: "THAT" There must be many things that you think you know.