Transcript for Lel Maout (2021-2023): Season 1, Episode 10  - EP10 - full transcript
Are you wondering how healthy the food you are eating is? Check it - foodval.com --- EPISODE 10 You animal! Do you realize what you're saying? -Why did you keep the girl at your place? -What do you want me to do? When I took her from you and I went to those people, they wouldn't take her because she's a girl. I told you then that they wanted a boy. You told me they'd take her even if the baby was a girl. That's what I thought, but they wouldn't take her. Then I searched for you everywhere to give her back to you, but I couldn't find you. So you kept her? My aim was for you to give her to a rich family. A family who had money, so that the girl could live happily. Not with you and your mean wife living in poverty and misery. You think I'm happy because I got stuck with her and all her expenses? This is the thanks I get for not leaving her in the street to live with stray dogs? That's okay, it's not a big deal. If someone sees you, they'll think she's your daughter. The girl is like my daughter. My niece, from a sister I never had. My one and only friend's daughter. Good, then take her back or give her back to her mother. But I want every penny I spent on her back. -It's going to cost you a lot. -Can you shut up so I can think? Okay, sister. I don't have anything. Well, well, who would've said that Sousou, the girl from the neighborhood, would ever live in a luxurious and classy place like this? Believe me, you've turned out to be a great, independent businesswoman. Listen to me, tomorrow, bring me one of her hairs, so I can check it. What do you mean? I want to make sure she's the same girl, not someone you've replaced her with. You can tell that from a hair? You were always a failure at school and you haven't changed. With one hair from her and another from her mother I can get a DNA test done. Then I'll find out the result. After that, we'll see what happens accordingly. Great, God bless science. Tomorrow, the hair you requested will be here, goodbye. Thank you. Lamees? Get inside, you idiot! Stop right there, you! Stop right there! What are you doing? Do you think you're Romeo? I was fixing the cable up there. -With a feather? Listen to me. -What's happening? You never understood when I used the old shoe and now you don't understand when I use this one. Next time, I'll use a high heel shoe and hit you hard! -Mrs. Sariah... -You're impolite! -Mrs. Sariah... -You were not raised well! -Stop it, Abdallah! -Lower your voice, for the sake of the neighborhood, this is not good for our image. You tell that long-haired guy working for you, if he doesn't stop, if he doesn't refrain from looking at people's daughters, I swear I'll wipe the floor with your hair! Whatever you say, but believe me, Rasheed is not what you think. He has good intentions. Yes, good intentions, God give you strength. -Listen, Abdallah. -Yes? -My daughter is pretty and polite. -We know that. She is educated, I will only marry her off to a precious, rich person. -That is your right. -Understood? Understood. What are you looking at? Do you think this is a film at the cinema? What's happening, Mr. Abdallah? Nothing at all, smoke your shisha and relax, it happens everywhere. It's normal, it's nothing. Why are you sitting here? Do you miss the place? Not at all, but... Come closer. But what? Do you know what I feel like doing? What? I feel like having a baby with you. A baby girl. I know that... I can't get pregnant... but I ask God for that every day before I go to sleep. He heard my prayers once before and He sent you to me. You never know... maybe He will hear my prayers this time as well. He will hear your prayers for sure. You bastard! Don't you learn unless I beat you? Do you need a beating? How many times have I told you I don't want you to be seen talking to that idiot? How many times have I told you? How many times? I spent all my money on you so that you could become a respectable girl, so that you can marry a man who's respectful and rich. And now you're in love with that idiot who hasn't got a penny? Why? What are you lacking here? Did I deprive you of anything? Listen, you idiot! Look at me now! You won't be leaving this room anymore, not even to go to school. -You won't go to school. -Please, Mom. So, are you afraid? Don't be afraid, it won't be hard. Tomorrow morning, they'll come to take you to a private clinic where a doctor will extract your liver, and kidneys, and heart. After that, you'll get your eternal rest. It means a few hours suffering. Tie him up, boys. -God give you strength, Abdallah. -Same to you, Oum Georges. So, Qaiss, sitting and relaxing? No worries, nothing happened. How come? All that happened and you say nothing happened? I'm worried she might be hurting her now. No one can do anything and as long as I'm alive, your problem is solved. How is it solved? Calm down, I want you to relax, go home to sleep and rest, you can count on me, by the morning we'll have a solution. Look at me, stand up and go to bed. Stop worrying. Wow, I can't believe it! Did you wake up early to set up the best vegetables? It's the prettiest sight ever. I opened at 6:00 in the morning. I thought I'd see Lamees on her way to school, but she still hasn't left the house. I'm afraid her mom could have hurt her after yesterday's incident. Calm down, I have to go somewhere. Pray that I can solve my problem, so I can solve your problem as well, deal? Deal. Abdallah, why are you here? What's the deal? Can I come in? Hanane, Hanane! What's wrong, Abdallah? You've got me all worried now. My heart, my heart! What's wrong, Abdallah? Has something happened? Something happened to my heart. What are you saying? How are you feeling? I feel like my knees are shaking a lot and my heart's beating so fast. Since when? Since 1978, since the day I met you. You got me all worried, who jokes around like that? Who says I'm joking? That's it, enough is enough, it's about time we get married and rest. It's not worth it anymore, do we still have time, Abdallah? Yes, it's worth it, why not? Because we got old, neither love nor marriage would suit us now. -Stop it, Abdallah, stop it! -Whose fault is it? Your fault or mine? You refused to marry me so you could raise Rasheed after your sister passed away. You were afraid that if we had any children, I would prefer my children to him. Look at us, we grew old, and I show you every day that the boy who you consider to be your son I consider to be my son too. Stop it! There's no more need for that kind of talk. No, there's a big need. We have to get married. We already separated because Rasheed knew that we both consider him to be our son. Now we have to get married for Rasheed's sake. We'll get some rest and we will solve his problems. Does Rasheed have any problems? We both know that he loves Lamees. We also know Amine and his wife Sariah. They won't let their daughter live with you or in a rented house. When I marry you, then you'll live in my house, which will be yours. You'll give your house to Rasheed, that way, we'll all be happy. Take your time and be at ease. I've waited all these years, I don't mind waiting for a few more days. Hurry up, Amine! We'll be late for work. Let's move! Good morning, my princess, my life companion! -What's wrong? -How pretty you are! What's that blue, that yellow, that green? What's wrong? Sit, drink your coffee and tell me what you want. Can't a man compliment his beloved wife? There's something behind those words, it's not like you. Come on, eat this and say what you have to say. What do you know about the woman who visited Mrs. Reem yesterday? Why do you ask? Don't answer every question with another question. Take it easy, you'll get the details. What do you know about her and the man who was with her? The man who accompanied her is Mr. Basil, Mr. Hadi's brother, who's Mrs. Reem's husband, I don't know the woman. Maybe she's his girlfriend, since she's been to the villa twice now. I don't know her or her name. -Her name is Sahar. My sister's name. -Yes, God rest her soul. But how come you know her name? My sister didn't die, I lied to you, Sahar is still alive and that's her. What? Sahar is still alive? Mom, open the door please, I have an exam, I want to go to school. Shut up! There's no school for you today. Tell me, what else do you know? Lamees, my sweet daughter, you know how much your mom and I love you. Yes, I know, Dad. My dear, your mother wants what's best for you. That's why she is rejecting Rasheed. Go to school now and we'll talk about it later. If Rasheed can provide you with a home and a good life, I won't mind. Go kiss your mom and apologize to her. I love you. Go to school. And behave! Sure, Mom. Why did you tell her that? We were happy she stopped going to school, it means she can marry Jaber. And what about telling her if Rasheed gets a house you won't mind? What kind of talk is that? Rasheed can't get a house and Jaber can wait. Did you forget about what I told you? No, I didn't forget and we'll talk about it. The most important thing now is our daughter. Our daughter and Sahar is the same topic. Sahar will pay more than Jaber for Lamees. I don't get it, is Sahar going to marry Lamees? How smart you are! Sit and let me explain! Go ahead, amaze me, you smart-ass! An owned or a rented house? I don't know, Rasheed! He told me that if you get a house, he won't mind us getting married. The house is there, an owned one, that way they have no excuse to refuse your marriage. What are you saying, boss? How is that? Lamees, go to school and I'll solve your problem. As long as I'm alive, don't worry about a single thing. Take care of your studies and forget about everything else. As long as Uncle Abdallah is here, don't worry about a thing. I'm at your service. Go on. Mr. Abdallah, what do you mean the problem is solved? Sit down and I'll explain it to you. Listen, Rasheed, when I told you that you're like a son to me, I wasn't lying to you. Had I married the woman I used to love a long time ago, and I still love now... my son would be your age exactly. But I can't let you buy a house for me. Neither can I, anyways, I don't have money to buy you a house. I mean, if you'll be the intermediary with the woman I love, so she can accept my marriage proposal, the problem will be solved. She'll live with me and she will give you her house, then we'll all live happily ever after. Why do I need to be an intermediary? Why would she give me her house so I can live in it? Because she is... She is your Aunt Hanane. My aunt? Hanane? God give you strength. He peed his pants, look. The poor man. Leave us alone, guys. So, you idiot... are you afraid? I asked the guys to take care of you. Look what I got to keep you warm. It's clear that you were afraid. You peed your pants. What a shame, Omourra! Next time, I'll tell them to get you a diaper. We're not kids anymore. You were afraid when you thought that someone wanted to take something from your body against your will. Did you feel what Reem felt when you raped her? Did you feel the psychological pain? I swear, Omar... if you go near her... if you even touch one hair on her head... I'll torture you to death. I'll extract your tongue from your mouth. Sorry, Omourra. You're my brother, my sweetheart, my friend, my partner. But business is business. I'll tell them to take you home. What if we go travelling? Travelling? Where would we go? France. What's on your mind? I've been thinking about going together to have a good time. We'll see a doctor there. What for? To check out your problem. You know that I can't. Doctors in France are really good. We won't lose a thing, we'll go there and consult with lots of doctors. Yes, we'll lose, I'll lose my nerve. I don't want to go through medical exams again. I don't want to give myself hope when there isn't any. But, my love, there is hope. You never lost it. The proof is that you're praying every day to have a child, right? Yes, but when the time comes, God will answer my prayers. It's not the doctors' decision. -Good morning. -Good morning, dear. I'm really hungry. -You seem relaxed today. -Yes indeed, I am so happy. Hopefully always. How's your hand? A lot better. I can eat using one hand, no worries. How's Sahar? She's great, she's fine. It's your mother. She called me twice yesterday, I didn't answer. Why aren't you talking to her? I don't know. You're no better, are you talking to her? I'll put it on speaker, because it will be a series of questions. -My dear mom, my sweetheart, how are you? -I only get sweet words from you. If I don't call you, you don't call me? I swear to God, I was busy, honestly. Nothing should make a son forget his mother. I haven't even had a call from your brother. Let my brother be for the time being, he's in love. -In love? -He's kidding, Mom. You know how Hadi jokes. How are you, Mom? I miss you so much, dear. Why aren't you answering my calls, little one? I was a bit busy, I wasn't paying attention to my phone. Please forgive me. Tell me, who is she? What does she do? Who's her family? Is this an interrogation, Mom? I'll keep you updated, it's still early days. I'm going to work now, I'll call you later. Bye, my love. -He ran away, right? -As usual. Okay, then tell me, who is she? Is she from a good family? Dear Mom, don't start asking me these questions. Little by little, and it's none of our business, the important thing is that they're happy. What do you mean? -She's not a suitable girl? -I didn't say that. The important thing is that they are happy. Is he happy? -He's happy, he is, so no worries. -What about you? Are you happy with your wife? Of course I'm happy with my wife. I'm really happy. What are you waiting for, when are you going to give me a grandchild? God is good, my love, God is generous. Good morning, sis. You're not just falling behind with me, you're falling behind with everything. Shut up, you idiot! Park the car up there. Did you get me what I asked for? I brought her hairbrush, I've counted every hair there. So you can check as many as you want to be sure. Okay, I'll tell you as soon as we get the result. You're just as sure as I am that she's the one. Otherwise, I wouldn't have brought Lamees' brush. We named her after my mother-in-law. Bottom line, when will I get the cash? I can't believe what a lowlife you are, you love money just like your dad did. A carbon copy. One could say you're affectionate like your mom. Don't you dare talk about my mom, got it? My mother is more decent than you and those who gave birth to you. They're the same people who gave birth to you, sister. Now... You're such a bastard, you have a business card now? -It's necessary for me as a driver. -Okay. I'll call you as soon as I get the results, now, leave. So, you won't be giving me your number? What if you vanish? I can't believe how smart you are. If I wanted to vanish, couldn't I just change my number and go? You have a point there. It seems you're waiting for visitors. Leave, now! Not that way, go up the stairs then on your right, go! It came loose, I can't find anyone to clean my wound. Here's the bandage, Mr. Basil, may you get well soon. Can we clean the wound at your place every day, Doctor? Surely no, you're very greedy by the way. What are you doing today? Can we have lunch together? I wish, I'm very busy today. Anyways, I came back home to grab a few maps, then I'm going back to work. Nighttime? Nighttime, I'll have dinner with you. Then again, no, I forgot, I'm having dinner with my friend. Can't you put if off? I can't, I've already done that too many times, she'll be traveling the day after tomorrow. Aren't we going to the chalet tomorrow with Hadi and Reem? In principle, that's our agreement. Perfect, so I'll see you tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the day after. Tulips are so meaningful to me. Go on, leave, so I can finish my work, otherwise, I won't be able to go tomorrow. -Go on. -Deal. That's okay, I'll do that. -Can we clean the wound tomorrow, Doctor? -Of course. Welcome, ma'am, it's been some time. -Where is he? -In the garden. As you can hear, life is give and take. You give to me, I give to you in return. In summary, you scratch my back and I'll scratch yours. I'll call you later, talk later. Welcome, welcome to your home, lady. Good thing you still remember that it's my home and I opened it for you. I surely remember, of course. What's the deal with the parties every single day? What parties? I swear, there's nothing like that. But I have my meetings here, it's business and then I go home. Are you sure? Pretty sure, come on. You can ask all the employees, they all know. I don't have to ask them, do you know why? Because I know better. A few days ago, you had someone by the name of Amine here, right? Yes, true, he came round to do business. He's one of the neighborhood residents, he's helping me to... What have time-wasting women got to do with business? What time-wasting women, ma'am? I bring them to him to please him, because he has his say with the residents who refuse to sell. Okay. I'll believe you this time, because I feel like it. What updates do you have? One second, I'll bring the neighborhood map and give you all the details. Hello, Sahar. It's very important that I see you. I have some important news that I can't tell you over the phone. I know what you want to tell me. How was the meeting with your brother yesterday? -Did you have fun? -Are you the one who sent Amine to me? Yes. I hired him to be my driver and his wife is the cook. Reem, stop messing around, you'll get us into trouble. No. I'll get you into trouble. This is only the beginning, Sahar. Listen, I will not be the loser here. You'll lose, you idiot! You'll lose big time! Wait... as if you are afraid of losing! Reem, come here right now, we have to talk. Let's stop this charade! We'll see! Let's wait and see, Sahar. Idiot! Idiot! What do you want? You're really insolent coming here after what've you done! Omourti, Omourti, my love, you're my brother and my sweetheart. But business is business. What's with the yellow! Did you crack an egg? You deserve what I did to you. You know that. I made you feel what you deserve to feel. Thank God that I didn't extract your liver, kidney, pancreas, or heart. Anyways, I can't take your heart, because it's already Reem's. But if you want it back, you have to cooperate with me. You have to do what I tell you. We have to take her away from Hadi. Yes, snort it hard! You, after all you've done, want to cooperate with me to get me back with Wejdan? You made a mistake with Wejdan and I made you pay for it. Even though I know you're deeply in love with her. No one could love her as much as you do, not any man. But we have to get her away from Hadi, otherwise, we'll lose her, both of us. I'll lose my sister and life companion, you'll lose the only woman you've ever loved. It's over, we've lost her, for good, Sahar. Shut up! We haven't lost her! If you do what I tell you to, I'll get her back. She won't come back. Forget about her, accept it like I'm trying to do. -Forget about her! -How are you trying to accept it? Through drinking and taking that poison? What do you want, Sahar? What do you want? What do you want? I want you to cooperate with me. Together, we can prevail over Reem. We should get rid of that imbecile Hadi. I can't do it alone. You can't do it alone. But together, we can. When Sahar decides to do something, she does it, you know that. You know all too well that I don't lose once I've made my mind up. Let's work hand in hand, Omar, you won't regret it. Omar, you won't be a loser when you're with me. Come on. Bravo, good, my little one. I missed you yesterday, you didn't come. -Don't you want to serve me a glass? -Yes, for sure. Today, before you leave, you'll give me your phone number. And why do you want it? Every time you're late, I'm nervous. Why is that? I'm a client like any other. Yes. You're right. You're a client like any other. But the difference is that they consider me a prostitute. But you see me as a psychologist, you come to me to talk and open up your heart. Go on, open your heart. I'm listening, what do you want? Come closer. Hello? Can't you put off or cancel your dinner with your friend today? I would have cancelled it if I could, trust me, without me telling you. What if we go out together after your dinner? I can't, believe me, we'll make up for it tomorrow. Okay then, call me when you finish, I'll wait for your call. It seems you're not going out tonight. No, her friend is coming from abroad and she's having dinner with her. Okay then, that's okay. You'll be together tomorrow, right? For sure, I'll change my clothes and come back down. Her friend. What do you want? I didn't know you had friends other than me who you could have dinner with. Ramroum, I'm making new friends. My old friends turned out to be traitors. I should tell you how loyal my friends are. Anyways, everyone learns from their own experiences. Bye, Sahar. Stop it, Omar, calm down. I swear, it's okay. Here, have a cigarette. Give me the pen from my vest. -How are you, Nohad? -I'm fine. -Don't tell me she's asleep. -Of course not, she's in the room. I'll take her tea. I missed you. Look what I got for you. It's finally over, that's the color you love. This is to keep you warm. It has the colors that you love as well. I'm so tired. I'm exhausted. I only rest when I'm here, Mom.